.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1990 Jan-Simon Pendry
.\" Copyright (c) 1990 Imperial College of Science, Technology & Medicine
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" Jan-Simon Pendry at Imperial College, London.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)amq.8	8.3 (Berkeley) 4/18/94
.\" jpman %Id: amq.8,v 1.3 1997/08/11 14:26:54 horikawa Stab %
.\"
.\" %Id: amq.8,v 1.3 1996/04/08 04:17:22 mpp Exp %
.\"
.Dd March 16, 1991
.Dt AMQ 8
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm amq
.Nd 自動マウントシステムへの問い合わせツール
.Sh 書式
.Nm amq
.Op Fl f
.Op Fl h Ar hostname
.Op Fl M Ar mountmap_entry
.Op Fl m
.Op Fl s
.Op Fl u
.Op Fl v
.Op Ar directory ...
.Pp
.Sh 解説
.Nm amq
は、現在の
.Xr amd 8
の動作状況を知るための簡単な手段を提供します。
.Nm amd
との通信は
.Tn RPC
によって行われます。現在のプロトコルでは、 3 つのモード
がサポートされています。デフォルトでは、マウントポイントと自動
マウントされたファイルシステムのリストが出力されます。別
のホストの状態を知るときは、
.Fl h
オプションで
.Ar hostname
を指定します。
.Pp
ディレクトリ名が与えられると、デフォルトの出力ではファイルシステム
ごとの情報が表示されます。
.Sh オプション
.Bl -tag -width flag
.It Fl f
自動マウントシステムに内部キャッシュを破棄するように要
求します。
.It Fl h  Ar hostname
.Ar hostname
で指定されたホストに問い合わせを行います。デ
フォルトでは、ローカルホストが使われます。
.Tn HP-UX
クラスタでは、デフォルトでルートサーバに問い合わせが行わ
れます。これは通常、自動マウントシステムがルートサーバで動
いているからです。
.It Fl m
マウントされたファイルシステムのリストを、
各ファイルシステムへの参照回数と
マウント時に起きたエラーを含めて表示するように、自動マウント
システムに要求します。
.It Fl s
自動マウントシステムに、システムの統計情報を表示するよ
うに要求します。
.It Fl u
自動マウントシステムに、
情報を表示するのではなく、
指定したファイルシステムをアンマウント
するように要求します。アンマウントは要求であって、
必ず行われるとはかぎりません。まれにマウントしているファ
イルシステムがタイムアウトを起こす場合があります。
これは、この要求が通常のタイムアウトを引き起こすくらい頻繁に 
.Nm amd
のメインスケジューラに取り上げられるからです。
.It Fl v
自動マウントシステムに、バージョン情報を提供するように要
求します。これは、
.Nm amd
の
.Fl v
オプションで得られる情報の一部です。
.It Fl M  Ar mountmap_entry
自動マウントシステムに、指定したマップエントリをルート
マップに追加しマウントするように要求します。
.El
.Sh 関連ファイル
.Bl -tag -width amq.x
.It Pa amq.x
RPCのプロトコル記述
.El
.Sh 警告
.Nm amq
は、Sunが登録しているRPCプログラム番号(十進数で300019)を使っ
ています。これは通常、
.Pa /etc/rpc
には含まれていません。
.Pp
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr amd 8
.Sh 作者
.An Jan-Simon Pendry
<jsp@doc.ic.ac.uk>, Department of Computing, Imperial College, London, UK.
.Sh 歴史
.Nm amq
は、はじめに 4.4BSD で導入されました。
.At
