.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgment:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     From: @(#)swapon.8	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/5/93
.\"	%Id: dumpon.8,v 1.9.2.1 1999/05/20 04:51:21 jkoshy Exp %
.\" jpman %Id: dumpon.8,v 1.3 1997/08/16 13:12:52 horikawa Stab %
.\"
.Dd May 12, 1995
.Dt DUMPON 8
.Os FreeBSD 2.1
.Sh 名称
.Nm dumpon
.Nd クラッシュダンプ用デバイスの指定
.Sh 書式
.Nm dumpon
.Op Fl v
.Ar special_file
.Nm dumpon
.Op Fl v
.Ar off
.Sh 解説
.Nm
は、パニック時にカーネルがクラッシュダンプをセーブするデバイスを
指定するのに用いられます。
.Pp
通常、
.Nm
はシステムのマルチユーザ初期化ファイル
.Pa /etc/rc
の中で呼び出され、ブート時の設定ファイル
.Pa /etc/rc.conf
の変数
.Dq dumpdev
によって制御されます。
.Pp
指定したダンプデバイスは、
物理メモリよりも少なくとも 64 キロバイトは大きい必要があります。
.Pp
.Fl v
フラグは
.Nm
にその処理に関する詳細情報を出力させます。
.Sh 注釈
通常、システムスワップデバイスの 1 つをダンプデバイスとして選択します。
なぜなら、ダンプ時に必要な広さを持っていると考えられるものが、
スワップデバイスであるからです。
.Pp
ダンプバイスの指定として、カーネルコンパイル時に
.Dq dumps on
節をカーネル設定ファイル (
.Xr config 8
参照) に記述することができます。
これは、マルチユーザモードに移行する前にカーネルがパニックする場合に有効です。
その後に起動する
.Nm
は、コンパイル時の値に優先します。
.Pp
.Nm
プログラムの動作は、
.Xr sysctl 3
の MIB 変数
.Dq kern.dumpdev
に指定された
.Ar special_file
のデバイス番号を設定するか、
あるいは
.Ar special_file
が文字列
.Dq Li off
の場合は
.Dv NODEV
(ダンプはとらないことを意味します)
を設定する、というものです。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr sysctl 3 ,
.Xr fstab 5 ,
.Xr rc.conf 5 ,
.Xr config 8 ,
.Xr init 8 ,
.Xr rc 8 ,
.Xr savecore 8 ,
.Xr swapon 8 ,
.Xr panic 9
.Sh 関連ファイル
.Bl -tag -width "/dev/{wd,da}?s?b" -compact
.It Pa /dev/{wd,da}?s?b
標準のスワップ領域
.It Pa /etc/rc.conf
ブート時のシステム設定
.El
.Sh バグ
クラッシュダンプをとるときには
既にファイルシステムレイヤは動作していないので、
クラッシュダンプを直接ファイルに落すことはできません。
.Pp
現在
.Nm
は、マイナ番号 1 のデバイスのみをダンプデバイスとして使用可能です。
.Sh 歴史
.Nm
コマンドは
.Fx 2.1
で登場しました。
