.ig \"-*- nroff -*-
Copyright (C) 1989-1995 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of
this manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice
are preserved on all copies.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
permission notice identical to this one.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this
manual into another language, under the above conditions for modified
versions, except that this permission notice may be included in
translations approved by the Free Software Foundation instead of in
the original English.
..
.\" jpman %Id: addftinfo.1,v 1.2 1997/05/13 16:07:12 horikawa Stab %
.TH ADDFTINFO 1 "8 September 1996" "Groff Version 1.16.1"
.SH 名称
addftinfo \- troff 用のフォントファイルに groff で用いるための情報を付加する
.SH 書式
.B addftinfo
[
.BI \- param\ value\fR.\|.\|.
]
.I res
.I unitwidth
.I font
.SH 解説
.B addftinfo
は troff フォントファイルを読み、groff 
システムで用いられるフォントメトリック情報を付加します。
情報が付加されたフォントファイルは標準出力に書き出されます。
追加される情報は、フォント自体のパラメトリックな情報と、伝統的な troff 
の文字名のつけかたに関する仮定から推定されます。
この情報は、主に文字の高さや深さです。引数の 
.I res
と 
.I unitwidth
は DESC ファイルの対応するパラメータと一致するべきです;
.I font
はフォントの名前です。
.I font
が 
.B  I
で終わる場合はイタリック体であると仮定されます。
.SH オプション
各オプションは、高さや深さなどを得るために用いられるパラメータのうちの 1 つを
変更します。フォントファイル内の現行の数量のように、各 
.I value
はポイントの大きさが 
.I unitwidth
であるフォントについて 
.I res
あたりのインチ数で表現します。
.I param
には、以下のなかから 1 つを選びます:
.TP
.B x-height
x などのような、背の低い小文字の高さ。
.TP
.B fig-height
図の高さ (10 進の数値)。
.TP
.B asc-height
b, d, l などのような、背の高い文字の高さ。
.TP
.B body-height
括弧などの文字の高さ。
.TP
.B cap-height
A のような大文字の高さ。
.TP
.B comma-depth
コンマの深さ。
.TP
.B desc-depth
p, q, y などのような、ベースラインよりも下に出た文字の深さ。
.TP
.B body-depth
括弧などの文字の深さ。
.LP
.B addftinfo
は、指定しなかったパラメータの値を推測するために、指定してある
パラメータの値を用いることはしません。パラメータが指定されない場合は
デフォルトの値が用いられます。デフォルトの値は、
Times フォントの手頃な値を選びます。
.SH 関連項目
.BR groff_font (5),
.BR groff (1),
.BR groff_char (7)
