.\" Copyright (c) 1997, 2000 Free Software Foundation
.\" See COPYING for conditions for redistribution
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001 FreeBSD jpman project
.\" This is for Japanese translation done by FreeBSD jpman project.
.\" $FreeBSD: doc/ja_JP.eucJP/man/man1/addr2line.1,v 1.4 2001/05/14 01:07:21 horikawa Exp $
.TH addr2line 1 "27 March 1997" "Free Software Foundation" "GNU Development Tools"
.de BP
.sp
.ti \-.2i
\(**
..

.SH 名称
addr2line \- アドレスをファイル名と行番号に変換する

.SH 書式
.hy 0
.na
.TP
.B addr2line
.RB "[\|" "\-b\ "\c
.I bfdname\c
.RB " | " "\-\-target="\c
.I bfdname\c
\&\|]
.RB "[\|" \-C | \-\-demangle "\|]"
.RB "[\|" "\-e\ "\c
.I filename\c
.RB " | " "\-\-exe="\c
.I filename\c
\&\|]
.RB "[\|" \-f | \-\-functions "\|]"
.RB "[\|" \-s | \-\-basenames "\|]"
.RB "[\|" \-H | \-\-help "\|]"
.RB "[\|" \-V | \-\-version "\|]"
.RB "[\|" addr addr ...  "\|]"
.ad b
.hy 1
.SH 解説
\c
.B addr2line
はプログラムのアドレスをファイル名と行番号に変換します。
アドレスと実行ファイルが与えられると、実行ファイル中のデバッグ情報を
使って与えられたアドレスをファイル名と行番号に対応づけます。

使用される実行ファイルは
.B \-e
オプションで指定します。デフォルトは
.B a.out\c
\& です。

.B addr2line
には 2 つの動作モードがあります。

1 つ目では、16進数のアドレスをコマンドラインで指定して、
.B addr2line
が各アドレスに対応するファイル名と行番号を表示します。

2 つ目では、
.B addr2line
は 16進数のアドレスを標準入力から読み込んで、各アドレスに
対応するファイル名と行番号を標準出力に表示します。
このモードでは
.B addr2line
をパイプ中で、動的に選び出されたアドレスを変換するために利用できます。

出力の形式は「ファイル名:行番号」です。ファイル名と行番号は
各アドレス毎に改行して出力されます。
.B \-f
オプションが指定されると、「ファイル名:行番号」の行の前に
アドレスを含む関数の名前を「関数名」の行として出力します。

ファイル名または関数名が特定できない場合は、
.B addr2line
はそれらが表示されるべき場所に 2 つのクエスチョンマークを表示します。
行番号が特定できない場合は
.B addr2line
は 0 を表示します。

.SH オプション
.TP
.BI "\-b " "bfdname"\c
.TP
.BI "\-\-target=" "bfdname"
オブジェクトファイルのオブジェクト・コード形式を
\c
.I bfdname\c
\& で指定します。

.TP
.B \-C
.TP
.B \-\-demangle
シンボル名の内部表現をユーザレベルの表現にデコード (\fIdemangle\fP) します。
加えてシステムが付加した先頭のアンダースコアも取り除くので、
これによって C++ の関数名がわかりやすくなります。

.TP
.BI "\-e " "filename"\c
.TP
.BI "\-\-exe=" "filename"
アドレスを変換する対象の実行ファイル名を指定します。
デフォルトのファイル名は
.B a.out\c
\& です。

.TP
.B \-f
.TP
.B \-\-functions
ファイルと行番号情報に加えて関数名を表示します。

.TP
.B \-s
.TP
.B \-\-basenames
各ファイル名のベース (パス名を除いたファイル名部分) のみを表示します。

.SH "関連項目"
.B
info\c
\& の
.RB "`\|" binutils "\|'"
の項;
.I
The GNU Binary Utilities\c
\&, Roland H. Pesch (October 1991)

.SH COPYING
Copyright (c) 1993, 94, 95, 96, 97, 98, 1999, 2000 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
.PP
This document is distributed under the terms of the GNU Free
Documentation License, version 1.1.  That license is described in the
sources for this manual page, but it is not displayed here in order to
make this manual more consise.  Copies of this license can also be
obtained from: http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/.

\"  .PP
\"  L. Preserve all the Invariant Sections of the Document,
\"  unaltered in their text and in their titles.  Section numbers
\"  or the equivalent are not considered part of the section titles.
\"  .PP
\"  M. Delete any section entitled "Endorsements".  Such a section
\"  may not be included in the Modified Version.
\"  .PP
\"  N. Do not retitle any existing section as "Endorsements"
\"  or to conflict in title with any Invariant Section.
\"  .PP
\"  If the Modified Version includes new front-matter sections or
\"  appendices that qualify as Secondary Sections and contain no material
\"  copied from the Document, you may at your option designate some or all
\"  of these sections as invariant.  To do this, add their titles to the
\"  list of Invariant Sections in the Modified Version's license notice.
\"  These titles must be distinct from any other section titles.
\"  .PP
\"  You may add a section entitled "Endorsements", provided it contains
\"  nothing but endorsements of your Modified Version by various
\"  parties--for example, statements of peer review or that the text has
\"  been approved by an organization as the authoritative definition of a
\"  standard.
\"  .PP
\"  You may add a passage of up to five words as a Front-Cover Text, and a
\"  passage of up to 25 words as a Back-Cover Text, to the end of the list
\"  of Cover Texts in the Modified Version.  Only one passage of
\"  Front-Cover Text and one of Back-Cover Text may be added by (or
\"  through arrangements made by) any one entity.  If the Document already
\"  includes a cover text for the same cover, previously added by you or
\"  by arrangement made by the same entity you are acting on behalf of,
\"  you may not add another; but you may replace the old one, on explicit
\"  permission from the previous publisher that added the old one.
\"  .PP
\"  The author(s) and publisher(s) of the Document do not by this License
\"  give permission to use their names for publicity for or to assert or
\"  imply endorsement of any Modified Version.
\"  .PP

\"  5. COMBINING DOCUMENTS
\"  .PP
\"  You may combine the Document with other documents released under this
\"  License, under the terms defined in section 4 above for modified
\"  versions, provided that you include in the combination all of the
\"  Invariant Sections of all of the original documents, unmodified, and
\"  list them all as Invariant Sections of your combined work in its
\"  license notice.
\"  .PP
\"  The combined work need only contain one copy of this License, and
\"  multiple identical Invariant Sections may be replaced with a single
\"  copy.  If there are multiple Invariant Sections with the same name but
\"  different contents, make the title of each such section unique by
\"  adding at the end of it, in parentheses, the name of the original
\"  author or publisher of that section if known, or else a unique number.
\"  Make the same adjustment to the section titles in the list of
\"  Invariant Sections in the license notice of the combined work.
\"  .PP
\"  In the combination, you must combine any sections entitled "History"
\"  in the various original documents, forming one section entitled
\"  "History"; likewise combine any sections entitled "Acknowledgements",
\"  and any sections entitled "Dedications".  You must delete all sections
\"  entitled "Endorsements."
\"  .PP

\"  6. COLLECTIONS OF DOCUMENTS
\"  .PP
\"  You may make a collection consisting of the Document and other documents
\"  released under this License, and replace the individual copies of this
\"  License in the various documents with a single copy that is included in
\"  the collection, provided that you follow the rules of this License for
\"  verbatim copying of each of the documents in all other respects.
\"  .PP
\"  You may extract a single document from such a collection, and distribute
\"  it individually under this License, provided you insert a copy of this
\"  License into the extracted document, and follow this License in all
\"  other respects regarding verbatim copying of that document.
\"  .PP

\"  7. AGGREGATION WITH INDEPENDENT WORKS
\"  .PP
\"  A compilation of the Document or its derivatives with other separate
\"  and independent documents or works, in or on a volume of a storage or
\"  distribution medium, does not as a whole count as a Modified Version
\"  of the Document, provided no compilation copyright is claimed for the
\"  compilation.  Such a compilation is called an "aggregate", and this
\"  License does not apply to the other self-contained works thus compiled
\"  with the Document, on account of their being thus compiled, if they
\"  are not themselves derivative works of the Document.
\"  .PP
\"  If the Cover Text requirement of section 3 is applicable to these
\"  copies of the Document, then if the Document is less than one quarter
\"  of the entire aggregate, the Document's Cover Texts may be placed on
\"  covers that surround only the Document within the aggregate.
\"  Otherwise they must appear on covers around the whole aggregate.
\"  .PP

\"  8. TRANSLATION
\"  .PP
\"  Translation is considered a kind of modification, so you may
\"  distribute translations of the Document under the terms of section 4.
\"  Replacing Invariant Sections with translations requires special
\"  permission from their copyright holders, but you may include
\"  translations of some or all Invariant Sections in addition to the
\"  original versions of these Invariant Sections.  You may include a
\"  translation of this License provided that you also include the
\"  original English version of this License.  In case of a disagreement
\"  between the translation and the original English version of this
\"  License, the original English version will prevail.
\"  .PP

\"  9. TERMINATION
\"  .PP
\"  You may not copy, modify, sublicense, or distribute the Document except
\"  as expressly provided for under this License.  Any other attempt to
\"  copy, modify, sublicense or distribute the Document is void, and will
\"  automatically terminate your rights under this License.  However,
\"  parties who have received copies, or rights, from you under this
\"  License will not have their licenses terminated so long as such
\"  parties remain in full compliance.
\"  .PP

\"  10. FUTURE REVISIONS OF THIS LICENSE
\"  .PP
\"  The Free Software Foundation may publish new, revised versions
\"  of the GNU Free Documentation License from time to time.  Such new
\"  versions will be similar in spirit to the present version, but may
\"  differ in detail to address new problems or concerns.  See
\"  http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/.
\"  .PP
\"  Each version of the License is given a distinguishing version number.
\"  If the Document specifies that a particular numbered version of this
\"  License "or any later version" applies to it, you have the option of
\"  following the terms and conditions either of that specified version or
\"  of any later version that has been published (not as a draft) by the
\"  Free Software Foundation.  If the Document does not specify a version
\"  number of this License, you may choose any version ever published (not
\"  as a draft) by the Free Software Foundation.
\"  .PP

\"  ADDENDUM: How to use this License for your documents
\"  .PP
\"  To use this License in a document you have written, include a copy of
\"  the License in the document and put the following copyright and
\"  license notices just after the title page:
\"  .PP
\"      Copyright (c)  YEAR  YOUR NAME.
\"      Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or
\"      modify this document under the terms of the GNU
\"      Free Documentation License, Version 1.1 or any later
\"      version published by the Free Software Foundation;
\"      with the Invariant Sections being LIST THEIR TITLES,
\"      with the Front-Cover Texts being LIST, and with the
\"      Back-Cover Texts being LIST.  A copy of the license
\"      is included in the section entitled "GNU Free
\"      Documentation License".
\"  .PP
\"  If you have no Invariant Sections, write "with no Invariant Sections"
\"  instead of saying which ones are invariant.  If you have no
\"  Front-Cover Texts, write "no Front-Cover Texts" instead of
\"  "Front-Cover Texts being LIST"; likewise for Back-Cover Texts.
\"  .PP
\"  If your document contains nontrivial examples of program code, we
\"  recommend releasing these examples in parallel under your choice of
\"  free software license, such as the GNU General Public License,
\"  to permit their use in free software.

.SH 日本語訳
野首 寛高(hnokubi@yyy.or.jp): FreeBSD 用に翻訳

.\" .SH 履歴
.\" 野首 寛高 <hnokubi@yyy.or.jp> 1998/09/23 FreeBSD 用に翻訳。
.\" 堀川和雄 <horikawa@jp.FreeBSD.org> 2001/08/04 binutils 2.11.2 用に修正。
