.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1998 Hellmuth Michaelis.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.sbin/i4b/alawulaw/alaw2ulaw.1,v 1.1.2.1 1999/08/29 15:41:33 peter Exp %
.\" jpman %Id: alaw2ulaw.1,v 1.3 1999/02/01 14:24:59 horikawa Stab %
.\"
.\"	last edit-date: [Sat Dec  5 17:57:34 1998]
.\"
.\"	-hm	writing manual pages
.\"
.\"
.Dd January 23, 1998
.Dt alaw2ulaw 1
.Sh 名称
.Nm alaw2ulaw
.Nd 音データを変換する
.Sh 書式
.Nm
.Sh 解説
.Nm alaw2ulaw
は、isdn4bsd パッケージの一部であり、音データを uLaw 形式から ALaw 形式に、
またその逆に変換します。
.Pp
データを stdin から読み込み、変換後のデータを stdout に出力します。
.Pp
.Em alaw2ulaw
として実行された場合には、ALaw 形式の入力を uLaw 形式に変換します。
.Pp
.Em ulaw2alaw
として実行された場合には、uLaw 形式の入力を ALaw 形式に変換します。
.Pp

.Sh 使用例
コマンド:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
alaw2ulaw <file.alaw >file.ulaw
.Ed
.Pp
は、ALaw 形式の入力ファイル file.alaw を uLaw 形式の出力ファイル
file.ulaw に変換します。

.Sh 規格
ITU Recommendations G.711

.Sh 作者
.Nm
ユーティリティとこのマニュアルページは、 Hellmuth Michaelis によって書
かれました。彼の連絡先は、hm@kts.org です。
