.\" Copyright (c) 1991, 1992, 1993, 1995, 1998, 1999, 2000 Free Software Foundation
.\" See section COPYING for conditions for redistribution
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001 FreeBSD jpman project
.\" This is for Japanese translation done by FreeBSD jpman project.
.\" $FreeBSD$
.TH ar 1 "1999" "Free Software Foundation" "GNU Development Tools"
.\"
.\" WORD: truncate	(小数で)切り捨てる[POSIX],切り詰める
.\"
.de BP
.sp
.ti \-.2i
\(**
..

.SH 名称
ar \- アーカイブの作成、更新、および、アーカイブからの抽出

.SH 書式
.hy 0
.na
.BR ar " [\|" "-" "\|]"\c
.I {dmpqrtx}[abcfilNoPsSuvV] \c
[\|\c
.I membername\c
\&\|] \c
[\|\c
.I count\c
\&\|] \c
.I archive\c
\& \c
.I files\c
\&.\|.\|.

.ad b
.hy 1
.SH 解説
GNU \c
.B ar\c
プログラムは、アーカイブの作成、更新、および、アーカイブからの抽出を
行ないます。
.I アーカイブ\c
\& とは、オリジナルのファイル (アーカイブの
.I メンバ\c
と呼びます) を復元できるような構造で、他のファイル群の集合を保持する
ような一つのファイルです。

元のファイルの内容、モード (パーミッション)、タイムスタンプ、所有者、
グループの情報はアーカイブ内でも保存され、ファイル抽出時には復元
されます。

GNU \c
.B ar\c
では、メンバファイルのファイル名の長さには制限はありませんが、システム
の設定によっては (他のツールで管理されるアーカイブファイルの形式との
互換性のために) メンバファイルのファイル名の長さに制限がある場合があります。
制限がある場合は、多くの場合 15 文字 (a.out 関連のファイル形式が代表的) か、
16 文字 (coff 関連のファイル形式が代表的) に制限されます。

この種類のアーカイブは、共有のサブルーチンを保持するライブラリとして
利用されることが多いため、\c
.B ar\c
\& はバイナリユーティリティと考えられます。

`\|\c
.B s\c
\|' 修飾子を指定した場合、\c
.B ar\c
\& はアーカイブ内のリロケータブルオブジェクトで定義されたシンボル
のインデックスを作成します。
一度作成されたインデックスは、\c
.B ar\c
\& がアーカイブの内容を変更するときには必ず更新されます (ただし `\|\c
.B q\c
\|' オプション指定時は更新されません)。このようなインデックスを持つ
アーカイブを用いることによって、ライブラリのリンクが高速化されたり、
ライブラリ内のルーチンがアーカイブ内の配置にかかわらず、互いを呼び出す
ことができるようになります。

`\|\c
.B nm \-s\c
\|' または `\|\c
.B nm \-\-print\-armap\c
\|' によって、このインデックステーブルを表示することができます。
もし、アーカイブにインデックステーブルが含まれていない場合は、\c
.B ranlib\c
と呼ばれる、もう一つの形式の \c
.B ar\c
\& を用いてテーブルだけを追加することができます。

\c
.B ar\c
\& を実行する時は、少なくとも二つの引数を指定する必要があります。
.I オペレーション\c
\& (動作) を指定する一つのキー文字と、処理するアーカイブ名です
(キー文字には\c
.I 修飾子\c
\& として複数の文字をつけることもできます)。

ほとんどのオペレーションは、処理する個々のファイル名を指定するための \c
.I files\c
\& 引数を受け付けます。

.SH オプション
GNU \c
.B ar\c
\& は最初のコマンドラインオプションとして、オペレーションコード \c
.I p\c
\& と、修飾子 \c
.I mod\c
\& を任意の順序で組み合わせたものを受け付けます。

最初のオプションの先頭にダッシュ(ハイフン)をつけることもできます。

キー文字 \c
.I p\c
\& は、どのオペレーションを実行するかを指定します。キー文字としては
以下のいずれか一つだけを指定することができます。

.TP
.B d
アーカイブからモジュールを\c
.I 削除\c
\& します。削除するモジュール名を \c
.I files\c
\& として指定して下さい。
ファイル名を指定しなければアーカイブは変更されません。

`\|\c
.B v\c
\|' 修飾子を指定した時には、\c
.B ar\c
\& は削除する際にそのモジュール名を表示します。

.TP
.B m
メンバをアーカイブ内で移動します。

あるシンボルが複数のメンバで定義されている場合は、アーカイブ内でのメンバの
順序によって、プログラムがライブラリをリンクした結果が異なることが
あります。

.B m\c
\& に修飾子が指定されなかった場合は \c
.I files\c
\& 引数で指定したメンバはアーカイブの\c
.I 最後\c
\& に移動されます。
`\|\c
.B a\c
\|'、`\|\c
.B b\c
\|'、または `\|\c
.B i\c
\|' 修飾子を指定することによって、修飾子に応じた場所に移動します。

.TP
.B p
アーカイブ内の指定されたメンバを標準出力に\c
.I 出力\c
\& します。`\|\c
.B v\c
\|' 修飾子が指定されたときは、メンバの内容を出力する前にメンバ名を出力
します。

.I files\c
を指定しなければ、アーカイブ内のすべてのファイルが出力されます。

.TP
.B q
\c
.I クイックアペンド\c
\&。\c
.I files\c
\& で指定されたファイルを、重複をチェックせずに\c
.I アーカイブ\c
\&の末尾に追加します。

`\|\c
.B a\c
\|'、`\|\c
.B b\c
\|'、`\|\c
.B i\c
\|' 修飾子はこのオペレーションには\c
.I 影響しません\c
\&。新たなメンバは常にアーカイブの末尾に置かれます。

`\|\c
.B v\c
\|' 修飾子を指定すると、\c
.B ar\c
\& は追加の際にそのファイル名を出力します。

このオペレーションの特徴は動作速度ですので、たとえ
シンボルテーブルのインデックスが存在したとしても、それを更新しません。
シンボルテーブルのインデックスを更新するには、明示的に `\|\c
.B ar s\c
\|' か
\c
.B ranlib\c
\& を使って下さい。

しかしながら、多くの異なるシステムにおいてクイックアペンドが
インデックスを再構築することが仮定されていますので、GNU
.B ar
は `\|\c
.B q\c
\|' は `\|\c
.B r\c
\|' と同じ動作をするように実装しています。

.TP
.B r
\c
files\c
\& をアーカイブに挿入 (重複の際は\c
.I 置換\c
\&) します。
このオペレーションは`\|\c
.B q\c
\|' とは異なり、追加するファイルと同名のメンバがすでに存在する
場合は削除されます。

もし \c
.I files\c
\& で指定したファイルの中に存在しないものが一つでも含まれている場合は\c
.B ar\c
\& はエラーメッセージを出力し、そのファイル名と同名のメンバは変更
されずに保存されます。

デフォルトでは新しいメンバはファイルの末尾に追加されますが、`\|\c
.B a\c
\|'、`\|\c
.B b\c
\|'、または `\|\c
.B i\c
\|' 修飾子を指定することにより、既存のメンバに対する相対的な位置関係を
指定することができます。

このオペレーションに `\|\c
.B v\c
\|' 修飾子を指定すると、挿入された各ファイルに対して、ファイルが追加
された (削除された古いメンバがない) か、置換されたかを示す `\|\c
.B a\c
\|' または
`\|\c
.B r\c
\|' のどちらかを含んだ一行が出力されます。

.TP
.B t
\c
.I アーカイブ\c
\& の内容、または \c
.I files\c
\& に列挙されたファイルのうち、アーカイブ内に存在するものの一覧を出力
します。通常はメンバ名だけを表示しますが、`\|\c
.B v\c
\|' 修飾子を指定することにより、モード (パーミッション)、タイムスタンプ、
所有者、グループ、サイズも表示します。

\c
.I files\c
\& の指定がない場合はアーカイブ内のすべてのファイルの一覧を表示します。

あるアーカイブ (`\|\c
.B b.a\c
\|' とします) の中に同じ名前 (`\|\c
.B fie\c
\|' とします) の複数のファイルが存在する場合は、`\|\c
.B ar t b.a fie\c
\|' は最初のファイルだけを表示します。同名のファイルをすべて見たい場合
はすべてのファイルの一覧を表示して下さい。この例では `\|\c
.B ar t b.a\c
\|' です。

.TP
.B x
アーカイブから \c
.I files\c
\& で指定されたメンバを\c
.I 抽出\c
します。
`\|\c
.B v\c
\|' 修飾子を指定すると、\c
.B ar\c
\& は抽出の際にそのファイル名を出力します。

\c
.I files\c
\& の指定がない場合はアーカイブ内のすべてのファイルを抽出します。

.PP

いくつかの修飾子 (\c
.I mod\c
\&) をキー文字 \c
.I p\c
\& の直後に付けることによって、オペレーションの動作を変更する
ことができます。

.TP
.B a
新しいファイルを既存のメンバの\c
.I 後\c
\& に追加します。
\c
.B a\c
\& 修飾子を用いるときは、\c
.I archive\c
\& 引数の前に\c
.I membername\c
\& 引数として既存のメンバ名を指定する必要があります。

.TP
.B b
新しいファイルを既存のメンバの\c
.I 前\c
\& に追加します。
\c
.B b\c
\& 修飾子を用いるときは、\c
.I archive\c
\& 引数の前に\c
.I membername\c
\& 引数として既存のメンバの名前を指定する必要があります。(`\|\c
.B i\c
\|'と同じ。)

.TP
.B c
アーカイブを\c
.I 作成\c
\& します。
存在しない\c
.I アーカイブ\
\& を更新するように指定した場合、そのアーカイブは必ず作成されますが、
その際、この修飾子を指定することによって、アーカイブを作成することを
明示していなければ、警告を出力します。

.TP
.B f
アーカイブ内の名前を切り詰めます。
通常
.B ar
は任意の長さのファイル名を受け付けますが、このため、いくつかのシステム
で使われている従来の
.B ar
と互換性のないアーカイブが作成されることになります。これが問題になる
場合は、
.B f
修飾子を指定して、ファイルをアーカイブに追加する際にそのファイル名を
切り詰めることができます。

.TP
.B i
新しいファイルを既存のメンバの\c
.I 前\c
\& に挿入します。
\c
.B i\c
\& 修飾子を用いる時は、\c
.I archive\c
\& 引数の前に\c
.I membername\c
\& 引数として既存のメンバ名を指定する必要があります。(`\|\c
.B b\c
\|'と同じ。)

.TP
.B l
この修飾子は指定可能ですが、使用されません。

.TP
.B N
.I count
パラメータを使用します。
アーカイブに同一名のエントリが複数ある場合、これが使用されます。
指定した名前のインスタンス
.I count
を、アーカイブから抽出または削除します。

.TP
.B o
メンバを抽出する際に\c
.I オリジナル\c
\& の時刻を保存します。この修飾子を指定しないと、アーカイブから抽出
されたファイルのタイムスタンプは抽出時の時刻になります。

.TP
.B P
アーカイブ中の名前とマッチングを取るときに、フルパス名を使用します。
.B ar
はフルパス名のアーカイブ (このようなアーカイブは POSIX 準拠ではありません)
を作成できませんが、他のアーカイブ作成器は可能です。
このオプションを使用すると、
.B ar
は完全なパス名を使用してファイル名のマッチングを行います。
他のツールで作成したアーカイブから 1 個のファイルを取り出す場合に有用でしょう。

.TP
.B s
アーカイブに他の変更がない場合でも、アーカイブにオブジェクトファイルの
インデックスを書き込んだり、既存のインデックスを更新します。この修飾子
はほかのオペレーションと併用することも、単独で使用することも可能です。
あるアーカイブに対して`\|\c
.B ar s\c
\|' を実行することは、そのアーカイブに対して `\|\c
.B ranlib\c
\|' を実行することと等価です。

.TP
.B S
アーカイブのシンボルテーブルを作成しません。これを用いると大きな
ライブラリを何回かに分けて作成する際に時間を短縮することができます。
この結果得られるアーカイブはリンカで使用することはできません。
シンボルテーブルを作成するためには最後に `\|\c
.B ar\c
\|' を実行する時に `\|\c
.B S\c
\|' 修飾子を外すか、そのアーカイブに対して `\|\c
.B ranlib\c
\|' を実行する必要があります。

.TP
.B u
通常 \c
.B ar r\c
\&.\|.\|. は列挙されたファイルをすべてアーカイブに挿入します。
この修飾子を指定すると、指定したファイルが既存の同名のメンバより
新しい場合\c
.I のみ\c
\&ファイルを挿入します。
`\|\c
.B u\c
\|' 修飾子は `\|\c
.B r\c
\|'(置換) オペレーションだけに付けることができます。
特に、タイムスタンプの確認は `\|\c
.B q\c
\|' オペレーションの利点である速度を低下させるので、`\|\c
.B qu\c
\|' の組み合わせは認められません。

.TP
.B v
オペレーションに対して
.I 冗長\c
\&な表示を要求します。
多くのオペレーションにおいて `\|\c
.B v\c
\|' 修飾子が指定されると、
処理されたファイル名などの付加的な情報が表示されます。

.TP
.B V
この修飾子は
.BR ar\c
\& のバージョン番号を表示します。

.PP

.SH 関連項目
.B
info\c
\&の
.RB "`\|" binutils "\|'"
の項;
.I
The GNU Binary Utilities\c
, Roland H. Pesch (October 1991).
.BR nm ( 1 )\c
\&,
.BR ranlib ( 1 )\c
\&.

.SH COPYING
Copyright (c) 1991, 1992, 1993, 1995, 1998, 1999, 2000 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
This document is distributed under the terms of the GNU Free
Documentation License, version 1.1.  That license is described in the
sources for this manual page, but it is not displayed here in order to
make this manual more consise.  Copies of this license can also be
obtained from: http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/.

\"  .SH GNU Free Documentation License
\"    Version 1.1, March 2000

\"    Copyright (C) 2000  Free Software Foundation, Inc.
\"    59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  USA
     
\"    Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim
\"    copies of this license document, but changing it is
\"    not allowed.
\"  .PP
\"  0. PREAMBLE
\"  .PP
\"  The purpose of this License is to make a manual, textbook, or other
\"  written document "free" in the sense of freedom: to assure everyone
\"  the effective freedom to copy and redistribute it, with or without
\"  modifying it, either commercially or noncommercially.  Secondarily,
\"  this License preserves for the author and publisher a way to get
\"  credit for their work, while not being considered responsible for
\"  modifications made by others.
\"  .PP
\"  This License is a kind of "copyleft", which means that derivative
\"  works of the document must themselves be free in the same sense.  It
\"  complements the GNU General Public License, which is a copyleft
\"  license designed for free software.
\"  .PP
\"  We have designed this License in order to use it for manuals for free
\"  software, because free software needs free documentation: a free
\"  program should come with manuals providing the same freedoms that the
\"  software does.  But this License is not limited to software manuals;
\"  it can be used for any textual work, regardless of subject matter or
\"  whether it is published as a printed book.  We recommend this License
\"  principally for works whose purpose is instruction or reference.
\"  .PP
\"  1. APPLICABILITY AND DEFINITIONS
\"  .PP
\"  This License applies to any manual or other work that contains a
\"  notice placed by the copyright holder saying it can be distributed
\"  under the terms of this License.  The "Document", below, refers to any
\"  such manual or work.  Any member of the public is a licensee, and is
\"  addressed as "you".
\"  .PP
\"  A "Modified Version" of the Document means any work containing the
\"  Document or a portion of it, either copied verbatim, or with
\"  modifications and/or translated into another language.
\"  .PP
\"  A "Secondary Section" is a named appendix or a front-matter section of
\"  the Document that deals exclusively with the relationship of the
\"  publishers or authors of the Document to the Document's overall subject
\"  (or to related matters) and contains nothing that could fall directly
\"  within that overall subject.  (For example, if the Document is in part a
\"  textbook of mathematics, a Secondary Section may not explain any
\"  mathematics.)  The relationship could be a matter of historical
\"  connection with the subject or with related matters, or of legal,
\"  commercial, philosophical, ethical or political position regarding
\"  them.
\"  .PP
\"  The "Invariant Sections" are certain Secondary Sections whose titles
\"  are designated, as being those of Invariant Sections, in the notice
\"  that says that the Document is released under this License.
\"  .PP
\"  The "Cover Texts" are certain short passages of text that are listed,
\"  as Front-Cover Texts or Back-Cover Texts, in the notice that says that
\"  the Document is released under this License.
\"  .PP
\"  A "Transparent" copy of the Document means a machine-readable copy,
\"  represented in a format whose specification is available to the
\"  general public, whose contents can be viewed and edited directly and
\"  straightforwardly with generic text editors or (for images composed of
\"  pixels) generic paint programs or (for drawings) some widely available
\"  drawing editor, and that is suitable for input to text formatters or
\"  for automatic translation to a variety of formats suitable for input
\"  to text formatters.  A copy made in an otherwise Transparent file
\"  format whose markup has been designed to thwart or discourage
\"  subsequent modification by readers is not Transparent.  A copy that is
\"  not "Transparent" is called "Opaque".
\"  .PP
\"  Examples of suitable formats for Transparent copies include plain
\"  ASCII without markup, Texinfo input format, LaTeX input format, SGML
\"  or XML using a publicly available DTD, and standard-conforming simple
\"  HTML designed for human modification.  Opaque formats include
\"  PostScript, PDF, proprietary formats that can be read and edited only
\"  by proprietary word processors, SGML or XML for which the DTD and/or
\"  processing tools are not generally available, and the
\"  machine-generated HTML produced by some word processors for output
\"  purposes only.
\"  .PP
\"  The "Title Page" means, for a printed book, the title page itself,
\"  plus such following pages as are needed to hold, legibly, the material
\"  this License requires to appear in the title page.  For works in
\"  formats which do not have any title page as such, "Title Page" means
\"  the text near the most prominent appearance of the work's title,
\"  preceding the beginning of the body of the text.
\"  .PP
\"  2. VERBATIM COPYING
\"  .PP
\"  You may copy and distribute the Document in any medium, either
\"  commercially or noncommercially, provided that this License, the
\"  copyright notices, and the license notice saying this License applies
\"  to the Document are reproduced in all copies, and that you add no other
\"  conditions whatsoever to those of this License.  You may not use
\"  technical measures to obstruct or control the reading or further
\"  copying of the copies you make or distribute.  However, you may accept
\"  compensation in exchange for copies.  If you distribute a large enough
\"  number of copies you must also follow the conditions in section 3.
\"  .PP
\"  You may also lend copies, under the same conditions stated above, and
\"  you may publicly display copies.
\"  .PP
\"  3. COPYING IN QUANTITY
\"  .PP
\"  If you publish printed copies of the Document numbering more than 100,
\"  and the Document's license notice requires Cover Texts, you must enclose
\"  the copies in covers that carry, clearly and legibly, all these Cover
\"  Texts: Front-Cover Texts on the front cover, and Back-Cover Texts on
\"  the back cover.  Both covers must also clearly and legibly identify
\"  you as the publisher of these copies.  The front cover must present
\"  the full title with all words of the title equally prominent and
\"  visible.  You may add other material on the covers in addition.
\"  Copying with changes limited to the covers, as long as they preserve
\"  the title of the Document and satisfy these conditions, can be treated
\"  as verbatim copying in other respects.
\"  .PP
\"  If the required texts for either cover are too voluminous to fit
\"  legibly, you should put the first ones listed (as many as fit
\"  reasonably) on the actual cover, and continue the rest onto adjacent
\"  pages.
\"  .PP
\"  If you publish or distribute Opaque copies of the Document numbering
\"  more than 100, you must either include a machine-readable Transparent
\"  copy along with each Opaque copy, or state in or with each Opaque copy
\"  a publicly-accessible computer-network location containing a complete
\"  Transparent copy of the Document, free of added material, which the
\"  general network-using public has access to download anonymously at no
\"  charge using public-standard network protocols.  If you use the latter
\"  option, you must take reasonably prudent steps, when you begin
\"  distribution of Opaque copies in quantity, to ensure that this
\"  Transparent copy will remain thus accessible at the stated location
\"  until at least one year after the last time you distribute an Opaque
\"  copy (directly or through your agents or retailers) of that edition to
\"  the public.
\"  .PP
\"  It is requested, but not required, that you contact the authors of the
\"  Document well before redistributing any large number of copies, to give
\"  them a chance to provide you with an updated version of the Document.
\"  .PP
\"  4. MODIFICATIONS
\"  .PP
\"  You may copy and distribute a Modified Version of the Document under
\"  the conditions of sections 2 and 3 above, provided that you release
\"  the Modified Version under precisely this License, with the Modified
\"  Version filling the role of the Document, thus licensing distribution
\"  and modification of the Modified Version to whoever possesses a copy
\"  of it.  In addition, you must do these things in the Modified Version:
\"  .PP
\"  A. Use in the Title Page (and on the covers, if any) a title distinct
\"  from that of the Document, and from those of previous versions
\"  (which should, if there were any, be listed in the History section
\"  of the Document).  You may use the same title as a previous version
\"  if the original publisher of that version gives permission.
\"  .PP
\"  B. List on the Title Page, as authors, one or more persons or entities
\"  responsible for authorship of the modifications in the Modified
\"  Version, together with at least five of the principal authors of the
\"  Document (all of its principal authors, if it has less than five).
\"  .PP
\"  C. State on the Title page the name of the publisher of the
\"  Modified Version, as the publisher.
\"  .PP
\"  D. Preserve all the copyright notices of the Document.
\"  .PP
\"  E. Add an appropriate copyright notice for your modifications
\"  adjacent to the other copyright notices.
\"  .PP
\"  F. Include, immediately after the copyright notices, a license notice
\"  giving the public permission to use the Modified Version under the
\"  terms of this License, in the form shown in the Addendum below.
\"  Preserve in that license notice the full lists of Invariant Sections
\"  and required Cover Texts given in the Document's license notice.
\"  .PP
\"  H. Include an unaltered copy of this License.
\"  .PP
\"  I. Preserve the section entitled "History", and its title, and add to
\"  it an item stating at least the title, year, new authors, and
\"  publisher of the Modified Version as given on the Title Page.  If
\"  there is no section entitled "History" in the Document, create one
\"  stating the title, year, authors, and publisher of the Document as
\"  given on its Title Page, then add an item describing the Modified
\"  Version as stated in the previous sentence.
\"  .PP
\"  J. Preserve the network location, if any, given in the Document for
\"  public access to a Transparent copy of the Document, and likewise
\"  the network locations given in the Document for previous versions
\"  it was based on.  These may be placed in the "History" section.
\"  You may omit a network location for a work that was published at
\"  least four years before the Document itself, or if the original
\"  publisher of the version it refers to gives permission.
\"  .PP
\"  K. In any section entitled "Acknowledgements" or "Dedications",
\"  preserve the section's title, and preserve in the section all the
\"  substance and tone of each of the contributor acknowledgements
\"  and/or dedications given therein.
\"  .PP
\"  L. Preserve all the Invariant Sections of the Document,
\"  unaltered in their text and in their titles.  Section numbers
\"  or the equivalent are not considered part of the section titles.
\"  .PP
\"  M. Delete any section entitled "Endorsements".  Such a section
\"  may not be included in the Modified Version.
\"  .PP
\"  N. Do not retitle any existing section as "Endorsements"
\"  or to conflict in title with any Invariant Section.
\"  .PP
\"  If the Modified Version includes new front-matter sections or
\"  appendices that qualify as Secondary Sections and contain no material
\"  copied from the Document, you may at your option designate some or all
\"  of these sections as invariant.  To do this, add their titles to the
\"  list of Invariant Sections in the Modified Version's license notice.
\"  These titles must be distinct from any other section titles.
\"  .PP
\"  You may add a section entitled "Endorsements", provided it contains
\"  nothing but endorsements of your Modified Version by various
\"  parties--for example, statements of peer review or that the text has
\"  been approved by an organization as the authoritative definition of a
\"  standard.
\"  .PP
\"  You may add a passage of up to five words as a Front-Cover Text, and a
\"  passage of up to 25 words as a Back-Cover Text, to the end of the list
\"  of Cover Texts in the Modified Version.  Only one passage of
\"  Front-Cover Text and one of Back-Cover Text may be added by (or
\"  through arrangements made by) any one entity.  If the Document already
\"  includes a cover text for the same cover, previously added by you or
\"  by arrangement made by the same entity you are acting on behalf of,
\"  you may not add another; but you may replace the old one, on explicit
\"  permission from the previous publisher that added the old one.
\"  .PP
\"  The author(s) and publisher(s) of the Document do not by this License
\"  give permission to use their names for publicity for or to assert or
\"  imply endorsement of any Modified Version.
\"  .PP

\"  5. COMBINING DOCUMENTS
\"  .PP
\"  You may combine the Document with other documents released under this
\"  License, under the terms defined in section 4 above for modified
\"  versions, provided that you include in the combination all of the
\"  Invariant Sections of all of the original documents, unmodified, and
\"  list them all as Invariant Sections of your combined work in its
\"  license notice.
\"  .PP
\"  The combined work need only contain one copy of this License, and
\"  multiple identical Invariant Sections may be replaced with a single
\"  copy.  If there are multiple Invariant Sections with the same name but
\"  different contents, make the title of each such section unique by
\"  adding at the end of it, in parentheses, the name of the original
\"  author or publisher of that section if known, or else a unique number.
\"  Make the same adjustment to the section titles in the list of
\"  Invariant Sections in the license notice of the combined work.
\"  .PP
\"  In the combination, you must combine any sections entitled "History"
\"  in the various original documents, forming one section entitled
\"  "History"; likewise combine any sections entitled "Acknowledgements",
\"  and any sections entitled "Dedications".  You must delete all sections
\"  entitled "Endorsements."
\"  .PP

\"  6. COLLECTIONS OF DOCUMENTS
\"  .PP
\"  You may make a collection consisting of the Document and other documents
\"  released under this License, and replace the individual copies of this
\"  License in the various documents with a single copy that is included in
\"  the collection, provided that you follow the rules of this License for
\"  verbatim copying of each of the documents in all other respects.
\"  .PP
\"  You may extract a single document from such a collection, and distribute
\"  it individually under this License, provided you insert a copy of this
\"  License into the extracted document, and follow this License in all
\"  other respects regarding verbatim copying of that document.
\"  .PP

\"  7. AGGREGATION WITH INDEPENDENT WORKS
\"  .PP
\"  A compilation of the Document or its derivatives with other separate
\"  and independent documents or works, in or on a volume of a storage or
\"  distribution medium, does not as a whole count as a Modified Version
\"  of the Document, provided no compilation copyright is claimed for the
\"  compilation.  Such a compilation is called an "aggregate", and this
\"  License does not apply to the other self-contained works thus compiled
\"  with the Document, on account of their being thus compiled, if they
\"  are not themselves derivative works of the Document.
\"  .PP
\"  If the Cover Text requirement of section 3 is applicable to these
\"  copies of the Document, then if the Document is less than one quarter
\"  of the entire aggregate, the Document's Cover Texts may be placed on
\"  covers that surround only the Document within the aggregate.
\"  Otherwise they must appear on covers around the whole aggregate.
\"  .PP

\"  8. TRANSLATION
\"  .PP
\"  Translation is considered a kind of modification, so you may
\"  distribute translations of the Document under the terms of section 4.
\"  Replacing Invariant Sections with translations requires special
\"  permission from their copyright holders, but you may include
\"  translations of some or all Invariant Sections in addition to the
\"  original versions of these Invariant Sections.  You may include a
\"  translation of this License provided that you also include the
\"  original English version of this License.  In case of a disagreement
\"  between the translation and the original English version of this
\"  License, the original English version will prevail.
\"  .PP

\"  9. TERMINATION
\"  .PP
\"  You may not copy, modify, sublicense, or distribute the Document except
\"  as expressly provided for under this License.  Any other attempt to
\"  copy, modify, sublicense or distribute the Document is void, and will
\"  automatically terminate your rights under this License.  However,
\"  parties who have received copies, or rights, from you under this
\"  License will not have their licenses terminated so long as such
\"  parties remain in full compliance.
\"  .PP

\"  10. FUTURE REVISIONS OF THIS LICENSE
\"  .PP
\"  The Free Software Foundation may publish new, revised versions
\"  of the GNU Free Documentation License from time to time.  Such new
\"  versions will be similar in spirit to the present version, but may
\"  differ in detail to address new problems or concerns.  See
\"  http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/.
\"  .PP
\"  Each version of the License is given a distinguishing version number.
\"  If the Document specifies that a particular numbered version of this
\"  License "or any later version" applies to it, you have the option of
\"  following the terms and conditions either of that specified version or
\"  of any later version that has been published (not as a draft) by the
\"  Free Software Foundation.  If the Document does not specify a version
\"  number of this License, you may choose any version ever published (not
\"  as a draft) by the Free Software Foundation.
\"  .PP

\"  ADDENDUM: How to use this License for your documents
\"  .PP
\"  To use this License in a document you have written, include a copy of
\"  the License in the document and put the following copyright and
\"  license notices just after the title page:
\"  .PP
\"      Copyright (c)  YEAR  YOUR NAME.
\"      Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or
\"      modify this document under the terms of the GNU
\"      Free Documentation License, Version 1.1 or any later
\"      version published by the Free Software Foundation;
\"      with the Invariant Sections being LIST THEIR TITLES,
\"      with the Front-Cover Texts being LIST, and with the
\"      Back-Cover Texts being LIST.  A copy of the license
\"      is included in the section entitled "GNU Free
\"      Documentation License".
\"  .PP
\"  If you have no Invariant Sections, write "with no Invariant Sections"
\"  instead of saying which ones are invariant.  If you have no
\"  Front-Cover Texts, write "no Front-Cover Texts" instead of
\"  "Front-Cover Texts being LIST"; likewise for Back-Cover Texts.
\"  .PP
\"  If your document contains nontrivial examples of program code, we
\"  recommend releasing these examples in parallel under your choice of
\"  free software license, such as the GNU General Public License,
\"  to permit their use in free software.

.\" .SH 履歴
.\" 奥村務 <oku@nml.t.u-tokyo.ac.jp>: 1998/09/13 FreeBSD 用に翻訳。
.\" 堀川和雄 <horikawa@jp.FreeBSD.org>: 2001/08/04 binutils 2.11.2 用に修正。
