.\" Copyright (c) 1990 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)basename.1	8.2 (Berkeley) 4/18/94
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/basename/basename.1,v 1.5.2.1 1999/08/29 15:25:30 peter Exp %
.\"
.\" jpman %Id: basename.1,v 1.2 1997/03/26 15:20:48 jsakai Stab %
.\"
.Dd April 18, 1994
.Dt BASENAME 1
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm basename , dirname
.Nd 指定したパスのファイル名部分やディレクトリ名部分を返す
.Sh 書式
.Nm basename
.Ar string
.Op Ar suffix 
.br
.Nm dirname
.Ar string
.Sh 解説
.Nm  basename
は
.Ar string
から最後の
.Ql \&/
までを
削除し、
.Ar suffix
が指定された場合はこれも削除します。
(まず後続する複数のスラッシュを取り除いた)
.Ar string
に残された文字列と
.Ar suffix
がまったく同じ場合には、削除しません。
そして、その結果得られるファイル名を標準出力に書き出します。
存在しない 
.Ar suffix
は無視します。
.Pp
.Nm dirname
は 
(まず後続する複数のスラッシュを取り除いた)
.Ar string
中の最後の
.Ql \&/
から最後尾までをファイル名とみなしてこの部分を削除し、
残りを標準出力に書き出します。
.Sh 使用例
次の行は、シェル変数 FOO に /usr/bin を設定するものです。
.Pp
.Dl FOO=`dirname /usr/bin/trail`
.Pp
.Nm  basename
および
.Nm  dirname
は共に、成功した場合は 0 を、
エラーが起きた場合は 0 より大きな値を返します。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr csh 1 ,
.Xr sh 1
.Sh 規格
.Nm basename
および
.Nm dirname
の機能は、POSIX 1003.2 準拠であると思われます。

