.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)biff.1	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/6/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/biff/biff.1,v 1.19 2002/08/16 03:08:25 johan Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd July 9, 2002
.Dt BIFF 1
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm biff
.Nd メールの到着時に、メールの着信とメールの発信人を報告するかどうか設定する
.Sh 書式
.Nm
.Op Cm n | y | b
.Sh 解説
.Nm
ユーティリティは、端末に対し、メールの到着を
システムから報告してもらうかどうかを設定します。
.Pp
影響を受けるのは、次のファイル記述子に結び付けられた最初の端末です:
標準入力、標準出力または標準エラーで、この順番です。
よって、シェルのリダイレクション機能を使用することで、
.Nm
が実行しているのとは別の端末における報告を切り替えることが可能です。
.Pp
.Nm
がサポートしているオプションとしては、以下のものがあります:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Cm n
報告しないように設定します。
.It Cm y
ヘッダ報告を設定します。
.It Cm b
ベル報告を設定します。
.El
.Pp
.\" 以下の一文は元の英語版マニュアルには含まれていないので
.\" とりあえずコメントアウトしてある --- jpman project sakai@csl.cl.nec.co.jp
.\"
.\" オプションを指定しない場合は現在状態を表示します。
.\"
ヘッダ報告を設定しているときにメールが届いた場合、
メールのヘッダとメッセージの最初の数行が自分の画面に表示されます。
ログインするたびに設定されるように、たいてい
.Pa \&.login
や
.Pa \&.profile
ファイルに
.Dq Li biff y
コマンドの記述が含められます。
.Pp
ベル報告を設定しているときは、ベル文字
.Tn ( ASCII
\\007) 2 個だけが、
メール到着時に端末に表示されます。
.Pp
引数を指定しないと、
.Nm
は端末の現在の報告状態を標準出力へ表示します。
.Pp
.Nm
ユーティリティは非同期に動作します。同期して動作させる場合は、
.Xr sh 1
の
.Ev MAIL
変数を用いるか、
.Xr csh 1
の
.Ev mail
変数を利用してください。
.Sh 診断
.Nm
ユーティリティは次のいずれかの値で終了します:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It 0
報告するようになっています。
.It 1
報告しないようになっています。
.It >1
エラーが発生しました。
.El
.Sh 互換性
以前のバージョンの
.Nm
ユーティリティは、
まず標準入力および標準出力のデバイスを試す前に、
標準エラーに結び付けられた端末に影響していました。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr csh 1 ,
.Xr mail 1 ,
.Xr sh 1 ,
.Xr comsat 8
.Sh 歴史
.Nm
コマンドは
.Bx 4.0
から登場しました。
.Nm
コマンドの名前は、 Heidi Stettner の犬の名前にちなんでいます。
彼は、1993年の8月に15歳で亡くなりました。
