.\" Copyright (c) 1997
.\"	John-Mark Gurney.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of the author nor the names of any co-contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY John-Mark Gurney AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS''
.\" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/brandelf/brandelf.1,v 1.9.2.2 2000/12/08 15:13:23 ru Exp %
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd February 6, 1997
.Dt BRANDELF 1
.Os FreeBSD
.Sh 名称
.Nm brandelf
.Nd ELF バイナリに特定 ABI 向けのマークをつける
.Sh 書式
.Nm
.Op Fl lv
.Op Fl f Ar ELF_ABI_number
.Op Fl t Ar string
.Ar
.Sh 解説
本コマンドは ELF バイナリにマークをつけ、
.Fx
用のある ABI 環境下で動作するようにします。
.Pp
オプションは以下の通りです:
.Bl -tag -width Fl
.It Fl f Ar ELF_ABI_number
指定した ELF ABI 番号の印を強制的に付けます。
.Fl t
オプションと非互換です。
これらの値は SCO/USL が割り当てます。
.It Fl l
既知の ELF タイプをすべて、標準エラーチャネルに列挙します。
.It Fl v
詳細な報告を出力します。
.It Fl t Ar string
指定された ELF バイナリの ABI タイプとして
.Ar string
をマークします。現在サポートされている ABI は
.Dq Fx ,
.Dq Tn Linux ,
.Dq Tn SVR4
です。
.It Ar file
同時に
.Fl t Ar string
が指定されていれば、
.Ar file
にタイプ
.Ar string
のマークを印します。
それ以外の場合は、単に
.Ar file
のマークを表示します。
.El
.Sh 実行例
.Nm
コマンドの典型的な使用例を以下に示します:
.Pp
.Dl % brandelf file
.Dl % brandelf -t Linux file
.Sh 診断
成功すると 0 で終了します。
ファイルが存在しない、短すぎる、正しくマーク付けできなかった、
または
.Fl f
オプションが設定されなかったにもかかわらず
要求されたマークが既知のタイプのいずれでもなかった
場合には 1 で終了します。
.Sh 関連項目
.Rs
.%A The Santa Cruz Operation, Inc.
.%T System V Application Binary Interface
.%D April 29, 1998 (DRAFT)
.%O http://www.sco.com/developer/devspecs/
.Re
.Sh 歴史
.Nm
のマニュアルページは
.Fx 2.2
で初めて登場しました。
.Sh 作者
このマニュアルページは
.An John-Mark Gurney Aq gurney_j@efn.org
によって記述されました。
