.\" Copyright (c) 2003 Maksim Yevmenkin <m_evmenkin@yahoo.com>
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" %Id: bthost.1,v 1.7 2003/05/21 22:19:00 max Exp %
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/bluetooth/bthost/bthost.1,v 1.2 2004/05/19 10:43:34 ru Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd May 8, 2003
.Dt BTHOST 1
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm bthost
.Nd Bluetooth ホスト名とプロトコルサービスマルチプレクサ値を検索する
.Sh 書式
.Nm
.Op Fl bhp
.Ar host_or_protocol
.Sh 解説
.Nm
ユーティリティは Bluetooth ホストとプロトコルサービスマルチプレクサ
(Protocol Service Multiplexor (PSM)) 値に関する情報を検索します。
この情報は、
.Pa /etc/bluetooth/hosts
と
.Pa /etc/bluetooth/protocols
ファイルから取得されます。
.Pp
ホストモードでは、ホスト名と Bluetooth アドレスの間で単に変換されます。
引数は、ホスト名か Bluetooth アドレスのどちらでも構いません。
本プログラムは、最初に、Bluetooth アドレスとして解釈することを試みます。
これが失敗すると、ホスト名としてそれを取り扱います。
Bluetooth アドレスはコロンによって分離された 6 つの 16 進数バイトから
成ります、例えば、
.Dq Li 01:02:03:04:05:06
です。
ホスト名はドットによって分離された名前から成ります。
例えば、
.Dq Li my.cell.phone
です。
.Pp
プロトコルモードでは、プロトコルサービスマルチプレクサ名と
割り当てられた数の間で単に変換されます。
引数は、プロトコルサービスマルチプレクサ名または割り当てられた数の
どちらでも構いません。
本プログラムは、最初に、割り当てられた数値として解釈することを試みます。
.Pp
オプションは次の通りです:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl b
簡潔な出力を作り出します。
.It Fl h
使用法のメッセージを表示して、終了します。
.It Fl p
プロトコルモードを有効にします。
.El
.Pp
.Nm
ユーティリティは標準出力に結果を出力し、
標準エラーにエラーメッセージを出力します。
出力は多岐にわたります。
ここにその可能性のすべての例を示します:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
% bthost localhost
Host localhost has address FF:FF:FF:00:00:00
% bthost ff:ff:ff:00:00:00
Host FF:FF:FF:00:00:00 has name localhost
% bthost -b localhost
FF:FF:FF:00:00:00
% bthost -b ff:ff:ff:00:00:00
localhost
% bthost do.not.exists
do.not.exists: Unknown host
% bthost 0:0:0:0:0:0
00:00:00:00:00:00: Unknown host
% bthost -p sdp
Protocol/Service Multiplexor sdp has number 1
% bthost -p 3
Protocol/Service Multiplexor rfcomm has number 3
% bthost -bp HID-Control
17
% bthost -p foo
foo: Unknown Protocol/Service Multiplexor
.Ed
.Sh 関連ファイル
.Bl -tag -width ".Pa /etc/bluetooth/hosts" -compact
.It Pa /etc/bluetooth/hosts
.It Pa /etc/bluetooth/protocols
.El
.Sh 診断
.Ex -std
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr bluetooth 3 ,
.Xr bluetooth.hosts 5 ,
.Xr bluetooth.protocols 5
.Sh 作者
.An Maksim Yevmenkin Aq m_evmenkin@yahoo.com
