.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2002 Maksim Yevmenkin <m_evmenkin@yahoo.com>
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" %Id: btsockstat.1,v 1.6 2003/05/21 00:09:45 max Exp %
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/bluetooth/btsockstat/btsockstat.1,v 1.6 2004/05/19 09:44:31 ru Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd October 12, 2003
.Dt BTSOCKSTAT 1
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm btsockstat
.Nd Bluetooth ソケット情報を表示する
.Sh 書式
.Nm
.Op Fl nrh
.Op Fl M Ar core
.Op Fl p Ar protocol
.Sh 解説
.Nm
ユーティリティは、様々な Bluetooth ソケット関連データ構造の内容を
記号で表示します。
表示する情報に対するオプションによりいくつかの出力形式があります。
.\" depending on = 〜により、〜次第で、〜に応じて、〜から、〜にもよるが、〜によって
.\" 原文: few は a few の誤り?
.Nm
ユーティリティは標準出力に結果を出力し、
標準エラーにエラーメッセージを出力します。
.Pp
オプションは次の通りです:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl h
使用法のメッセージを表示して、終了します。
.It Fl M Ar core
デフォルトの
.Pa /dev/kmem
の代わりに指定されたコアから名前リストに関連している値を抽出します。
.It Fl n
数値として Bluetooth アドレスを表示します。
通常、
.Nm
は Bluetooth アドレスの解決を試み、それらを記号で表示します。
.It Fl p Ar protocol
指定された各プロトコルに対して、それぞれアクティブソケット
(プロトコル制御ブロック) のリストを表示します。
サポートしているプロトコルは次の通りです:
.Cm hci_raw , l2cap_raw , l2cap, rfcomm
そして
.Cm rfcomm_s
.It Fl r
指定されたプロトコルに対して、(もしあるならば) アクティブルーティング
エントリのリストを表示します。
.El
.Sh バグ
たぶんあるでしょう。
.\" most likely = たいがい、たぶん、十中八九
見つけたなら、報告してください。
.Sh 診断
.Ex -std
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr ng_btsocket 4
.Sh 作者
.An Maksim Yevmenkin Aq m_evmenkin@yahoo.com
