.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1999 Sheldon Hearn
.\"
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	%FreeBSD: src/share/man/man1/builtin.1,v 1.5 2000/03/03 09:28:05 sheldonh Exp %
.\"
.\" jpman %Id: builtin.1,v 0.0 1999/12/11 15:12:46 horikawa Stab %
.Dd September 1, 1999
.Dt BUILTIN 1
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm builtin ,
.Nm alias ,
.Nm alloc ,
.Nm bg ,
.Nm break ,
.Nm breaksw ,
.Nm case ,
.Nm cd ,
.Nm chdir ,
.Nm command ,
.Nm continue ,
.Nm cwd ,
.Nm default ,
.Nm dirs ,
.Nm do ,
.Nm done ,
.Nm echo ,
.Nm elif ,
.Nm else ,
.Nm end ,
.Nm endif ,
.Nm endsw ,
.Nm esac ,
.Nm eval ,
.Nm exec ,
.Nm exit ,
.Nm export ,
.Nm fc ,
.Nm fg ,
.Nm fi ,
.Nm for ,
.Nm foreach ,
.Nm getopts ,
.Nm glob ,
.Nm goto ,
.Nm hash ,
.Nm hashstat ,
.Nm history ,
.Nm if ,
.Nm jobid ,
.Nm jobs ,
.Nm kill ,
.Nm limit ,
.Nm login ,
.Nm logout ,
.Nm nice ,
.Nm nohup ,
.Nm notify ,
.Nm onintr ,
.Nm popd ,
.Nm printf ,
.Nm pushd ,
.Nm pwd ,
.Nm read ,
.Nm readonly ,
.Nm rehash ,
.Nm repeat ,
.Nm set ,
.Nm setenv ,
.Nm setvar ,
.Nm shift ,
.Nm source ,
.Nm stop ,
.Nm suspend ,
.Nm switch ,
.Nm then ,
.Nm time ,
.Nm trap ,
.Nm type ,
.Nm ulimit ,
.Nm umask ,
.Nm unalias ,
.Nm unhash ,
.Nm unlimit ,
.Nm unset ,
.Nm unsetenv ,
.Nm until ,
.Nm wait ,
.Nm which ,
.Nm while
.Nd シェル組み込みコマンド
.Sh 書式
.Nm builtin
.Op Fl options
.Op Ar args ...
.Sh 解説
シェル組み込みコマンドは、実行中のシェルプロセス内で実行されるコマンドです。
.Xr csh 1
組み込みコマンドの場合、
パイプラインの構成要素として登場する場合には、
最後の構成要素である場合を除き、コマンドはサブシェル内で実行されます。
.Pp
シェルに対して指定されたコマンドがスラッシュ
.Dq \&/
を含む場合、
指定したコマンドの最後の部分が組み込みコマンドの名前とマッチする場合でも、
シェルは組み込みコマンドを実行しません。
それ故、組み込み echo コマンドをサポートするシェルでは
.Dq Ic echo
は組み込みコマンドを実行させますが、
.Dq Pa /bin/echo
や
.Dq Pa ./echo
は組み込みコマンドを実行させません。
.Pp
複数のシェルに存在する組み込みコマンドもありますが、
それらの動作はこれをサポートする各シェルで異なるかもしれません。
下表は、シェル組み込みコマンドと、これらをサポートする標準シェルと、
独立ユーティリティとして存在するか否かを列挙しています
.Pp
ここには
.Xr csh 1
と
.Xr sh 1
の組み込みコマンドだけを列挙しています。
これらのシェルのもとでの各組み込みコマンドの動作の詳細は、
適切なマニュアルページを参照してください。
他のシェルのユーザは、
そのシェルと共に提供される文書を参照する必要があるでしょう。
.Bl -column "continueXX" "ExternalXX" "csh(1)" "sh(1)" -offset indent
.\"
.\" XXX:
.\" The correct table header here can not be rendered with mdoc's current
.\" argument maximum.  When mdoc can handle sufficient arguments, the
.\" correct table header will be as follows:
.\" .It Em Command Ta Em External Ta Xr csh 1 Ta Xr sh 1
.\"
.It Em コマンド	外部	csh	sh
.It Ic alias Ta \&No Ta Yes Ta Yes
.It Ic alloc Ta \&No Ta Yes Ta \&No
.It Ic bg Ta \&No Ta Yes Ta Yes
.It Ic break Ta \&No Ta Yes Ta \&No
.It Ic breaksw Ta \&No Ta Yes Ta \&No
.It Ic case Ta \&No Ta Yes Ta Yes
.It Ic cd Ta \&No Ta Yes Ta Yes
.It Ic chdir Ta \&No Ta Yes Ta \&No
.It Ic command Ta \&No Ta \&No Ta Yes
.It Ic continue Ta \&No Ta Yes Ta \&No
.It Ic cwd Ta \&No Ta Yes Ta \&No
.It Ic default Ta \&No Ta Yes Ta \&No
.It Ic dirs Ta \&No Ta Yes Ta \&No
.It Ic do Ta \&No Ta \&No Ta Yes
.It Ic done Ta \&No Ta \&No Ta Yes
.It Ic echo Ta Yes Ta Yes Ta Yes
.It Ic elif Ta \&No Ta \&No Ta Yes
.It Ic else Ta \&No Ta Yes Ta \&No
.It Ic end Ta \&No Ta Yes Ta \&No
.It Ic endif Ta \&No Ta Yes Ta \&No
.It Ic endsw Ta \&No Ta Yes Ta \&No
.It Ic esac Ta \&No Ta \&No Ta Yes
.It Ic eval Ta \&No Ta Yes Ta Yes
.It Ic exec Ta \&No Ta Yes Ta Yes
.It Ic exit Ta \&No Ta Yes Ta Yes
.It Ic export Ta \&No Ta \&No Ta Yes
.It Ic fc Ta \&No Ta \&No Ta Yes
.It Ic fg Ta \&No Ta Yes Ta Yes
.It Ic fi Ta \&No Ta \&No Ta Yes
.It Ic for Ta \&No Ta \&No Ta Yes
.It Ic foreach Ta \&No Ta Yes Ta \&No
.It Ic getopts Ta \&No Ta \&No Ta Yes
.It Ic glob Ta \&No Ta Yes Ta \&No
.It Ic goto Ta \&No Ta Yes Ta \&No
.It Ic hash Ta \&No Ta \&No Ta Yes
.It Ic hashstat Ta \&No Ta Yes Ta \&No
.It Ic history Ta \&No Ta Yes Ta \&No
.It Ic if Ta \&No Ta Yes Ta \&No
.It Ic jobid Ta \&No Ta \&No Ta Yes
.It Ic jobs Ta \&No Ta Yes Ta Yes
.It Ic kill Ta Yes Ta Yes Ta \&No
.It Ic limit Ta \&No Ta Yes Ta \&No
.It Ic login Ta Yes Ta Yes Ta \&No
.It Ic logout Ta \&No Ta Yes Ta \&No
.It Ic nice Ta Yes Ta Yes Ta \&No
.It Ic nohup Ta Yes Ta Yes Ta \&No
.It Ic notify Ta \&No Ta Yes Ta \&No
.It Ic onintr Ta \&No Ta Yes Ta \&No
.It Ic popd Ta \&No Ta Yes Ta \&No
.It Ic printf Ta Yes Ta Yes Ta Yes
.It Ic pushd Ta \&No Ta Yes Ta \&No
.It Ic pwd Ta Yes Ta \&No Ta Yes
.It Ic read Ta \&No Ta \&No Ta Yes
.It Ic readonly Ta \&No Ta \&No Ta Yes
.It Ic rehash Ta \&No Ta Yes Ta \&No
.It Ic repeat Ta \&No Ta Yes Ta \&No
.It Ic set Ta \&No Ta Yes Ta \&Yes
.It Ic setenv Ta \&No Ta Yes Ta \&No
.It Ic setvar Ta \&No Ta \&No Ta Yes
.It Ic shift Ta \&No Ta Yes Ta Yes
.It Ic source Ta \&No Ta Yes Ta \&No
.It Ic stop Ta \&No Ta Yes Ta \&No
.It Ic suspend Ta \&No Ta Yes Ta \&No
.It Ic switch Ta \&No Ta Yes Ta \&No
.It Ic then Ta \&No Ta \&No Ta Yes
.It Ic time Ta Yes Ta Yes Ta \&No
.It Ic trap Ta \&No Ta \&No Ta Yes
.It Ic type Ta \&No Ta \&No Ta Yes
.It Ic ulimit Ta \&No Ta \&No Ta Yes
.It Ic umask Ta \&No Ta Yes Ta Yes
.It Ic unalias Ta \&No Ta Yes Ta Yes
.It Ic unhash Ta \&No Ta Yes Ta \&No
.It Ic unlimit Ta \&No Ta Yes Ta \&No
.It Ic unset Ta \&No Ta Yes Ta Yes
.It Ic unsetenv Ta \&No Ta Yes Ta \&No
.It Ic until Ta \&No Ta \&No Ta Yes
.It Ic wait Ta \&No Ta Yes Ta Yes
.It Ic which Ta Yes Ta Yes Ta \&No
.It Ic while Ta \&No Ta Yes Ta \&No
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr csh 1 ,
.Xr echo 1 ,
.Xr kill 1 ,
.Xr login 1 ,
.Xr nice 1 ,
.Xr nohup 1 ,
.Xr printf 1 ,
.Xr pwd 1 ,
.Xr sh 1 ,
.Xr time 1 ,
.Xr which 1
.Sh 歴史
.Nm
マニュアルページが最初に登場したのは
.Fx 3.4
です。
.Sh 作者
このマニュアルページは
.An Sheldon Hearn Aq sheldonh@FreeBSD.org
が書きました。
