.\" Copyright (c) 1992, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)cap_mkdb.1	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/6/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/cap_mkdb/cap_mkdb.1,v 1.12 2002/04/19 23:21:39 charnier Exp %
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd June 6, 1993
.Dt CAP_MKDB 1
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm cap_mkdb
.Nd ケーパビリティ・データベースを作る
.Sh 書式
.Nm cap_mkdb
.Op Fl v
.Op Fl f Ar outfile
.Ar file
.Op Ar
.Sh 解説
.Nm cap_mkdb
ユーティリティは、指定したファイルを連結して形成した
.Xr getcap 3
論理データベースから、ハッシュ化
されたデータベースを作ります。
.Pp
データベースの名前は、先頭に指定したファイルのベース名に文字列
.Dq .db
を付け加えたものになります。
.Xr getcap 3
ルーチンの検索速度は、オリジナルのテキストファイルよりも、
このデータベースのほうがずっと高速です。
.Pp
ファイル内の ``tc'' エントリは、データベースにストアされる前に展開され
ます。
.Pp
オプションとしては、以下のものがあります:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl f Ar outfile
データベースのベース名として別のものを指定します。
.It Fl v
データベース内のケーパビリティレコードの登録数を表示します。
.El
.Sh 書式
個々のレコードは二種類の異なるキーを用いてデータベース内に格納されます。
.Pp
第一の形式は、キーがレコードの最初のケーパビリティ
(末端のコロン(``:'')は含みません)から構成され、
データフィールドがスペシャルバイトとレコードの残りの部分から構成されています。
スペシャルバイトの値は、0 あるいは 1 のいずれかです。ここで 0 はレコードの
状態が良好であることを、1 はレコード中に展開することができなかっ
た ``tc'' ケーパビリティが存在することを示します。
.Pp
第二の形式は、キーがレコード最初のケーパビリティの中の名前の一つで
構成され、データフィールドがスペシャルバイトとレコードの最初のケーパビリティ
から構成されています。この場合スペシャルバイトの値は 2 です。
.Pp
通常の動作においては、まずデータベースから名前を検索します。
その結果得られるのは、第二の形式のキー/データ組です。
このキー/データ組のデータフィールドを用いて、
第一の形式のキー/データ組を検索します。これが
与えられた名前に対する実際のデータになります。
.Sh 診断
.Ex -std
.\"
.\" 以下の使用例の章は FreeBSD オリジナルマニュアルには無い。
.\" このような使用例の正当性を容易には確認できないので、
.\" 残念だがこの章はコメントアウトすることにした。 --- jpman J.Sakai
.\"
.\".Sh 使用例
.\"termcap ファイルにエントリを追加した場合などは、
.\"このコマンドを用いてデータベースファイルを更新しておきます。
.\".Pp
.\".Dl # cap_mkdb -v /usr/share/misc/termcap
.\".Dl cap_mkdb: 555 capability records
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr dbopen 3 ,
.Xr getcap 3 ,
.Xr termcap 5
