.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)checknr.1	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/6/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/checknr/checknr.1,v 1.5.2.1 2000/12/08 15:13:24 ru Exp %
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd June 6, 1993
.Dt CHECKNR 1
.Os BSD 4
.Sh 名称
.Nm checknr
.Nd nroff および troff ファイルをチェックする
.Sh 書式
.Nm checknr
.Op Fl a Ns Ar \&.x1.y1.x2.y2. ... \&.xn.yn
.Op Fl c Ns Ar \&.x1.x2.x3 ... \&.xn
.Op Fl s
.Op Fl f
.Ar file
.Sh 解説
.Nm
は、
.Xr nroff 1
や
.Xr troff 1
の入力ファイルのリストに対して、デリミタの開始および終了の不一致や
間違ったコマンドを含む、ある種類のエラーをチェックします。
ファイルが指定されなかった場合、
.Nm
は標準入力をチェックします。
.Pp
オプション
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl a
既知マクロのリストに追加のマクロペアを追加します。
その後ろには 6 文字のグループが続かなくてはなりません。
各グループはマクロのペアを定義します。
6 文字はピリオドと最初のマクロ名、更にピリオドと2番目のマクロ名です。
例えば、 .BS と .ES のペアを定義するためには、
.Sq Li \-a.BS.ES
を使ってください。
.It Fl c
通常なら未定義であるといわれるコマンドを定義します。
.It Fl f
.Nm
に
.Ql \ef
のフォント変更を無視させます。
.It Fl s
.Ql \es
のサイズ変更を無視させます。
.El
.Pp
デリミタのチェックは以下の通りです。
.Bl -enum
.It
\efx ... \efP を使ったフォントの変更。
.It
\esx ... \es0 を使ったサイズの変更。
.It
\&.TS と .TEマクロのようにいつもペアで使われる、
``開始...終了''形式のマクロ。
.El
.Pp
.Nm
は、
.Xr lint 1 
と同じように、
.Nm
によるチェックを念頭に置いて作成されたドキュメントを
チェックするのに用いることを意図しています。
.\"(チェック者注) この部分若干意訳。原文は以下の通り。(sakai@jp.freebsd.org)
.\".Nm Checknr
.\"is intended for use on documents that are prepared with
.\".Nm checknr
.\"in mind, much the same as
.\".Xr lint 1 .
コマンドは、記述形式が
.Ql \ef
と
.Ql \es
コマンドに対して、
各
.Ql \efx
は
.Ql \efP
で終了されており、
.Ql \esx
は
.Ql \es0 
で終了されているようなものを期待しています。
直接次のフォントに切り替えたり、
明示的にもとのフォントやポイントサイズを指定したりしても動作しますし、
実際そのようにしているドキュメントは数多く存在しますが、
.Nm
はそのような使用法に対して警告を発します。
おそらく
.Ql \efP
と
.Ql \es0
形式を使うほうがよいはずなので、
このようなスタイルを用いることは、
ドキュメント執筆スタイルの向上に寄与すると考えて下さい。
.Pp
.Nm
は、
.Xr ms 7
と
.Xr me 7
マクロパッケージを認識します。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr nroff 1 ,
.Xr troff 1 ,
.Xr me 7 ,
.Xr ms 7
.\" .Xr checkeq 1 ,
.Sh 診断
.Bd -ragged -compact
デリミタが一致しない時に、警告を出します。
コマンドを認識できない時に、警告を出します。
コマンドの文法について、さまざまな警告を出します。
.Ed
.Sh バグ
.Fl a 
を用いて 1 文字のマクロ名を定義する方法がありません。
.Pp
条件文のような、ある種の正当な構造を認識できません。
.Sh 歴史
.Nm
コマンドは
.Bx 4.0 
から登場しました。
