.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1990, 1993, 1994
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)chgrp.1	8.3 (Berkeley) 3/31/94
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.sbin/chown/chgrp.1,v 1.9 2000/03/08 16:31:41 obrien Exp %
.\" jpman %Id: chgrp.1,v 1.3 1997/05/19 16:29:32 horikawa Stab %
.\"
.Dd March 31, 1994
.Dt CHGRP 1
.Os BSD 4.2
.Sh 名称
.Nm chgrp
.Nd 指定したファイルのグループ
.Tn ID
を変更する
.Sh 書式
.Nm chgrp
.Op Fl fhv
.Oo
.Fl R
.Op Fl H | Fl L | Fl P
.Oc
.Ar group
.Ar
.Sh 解説
.Nm chgrp
は指定されたファイルのグループ ID を 
.Ar group
にセットします。
.Pp
オプションは以下のものがあります:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl H
.Fl R
オプションとともに指定されている場合に、コマンドライン上のシンボ
リックリンクをたどるようになります。(ツリー内をたどっている際中に見つけた
シンボリックリンクの先は調べません)。
.It Fl L
.Fl R
オプションとともに指定された場合に、全てのシンボリックリンク
をたどるようになります。
.It Fl P
.Fl R
オプションとともに指定された場合に、シンボリックリンクの先
をたどらないようになります。
.It Fl R
指定したファイル自身の代わりに、そのファイルをルートとする階層の
ファイルのグループ ID を変更します。
.It Fl f
使い方の間違い以外のエラーを無視し、不適切なモードに対する
質問を行なわなくなります。
.It Fl h
ファイルがシンボリックリンクの場合、
ポイントされるファイルではなく、
リンク自身のグループ ID を変えます。
.It Fl v
.Nm
を冗長にし、グループが修正されるファイルを表示させます。
.El
.Pp
.Fl H ,
.Fl L ,
.Fl P
のオプションは 
.Fl R
が指定されない限り
無視されます。加えて、これらのオプションはお互いの効果を上書きするため、
コマンドの動作は一番最後に指定されたもので決まります。
.Pp
.Ar group
は、
ファイル
.Pf ( Pa /etc/group )
中のグループ ID の数値かグループ名のどちらかです。グループ名がグループ ID
の数値でもある場合、このオペランドはグループ名とみなされます。
.Pp
.Nm
を実行するユーザは、指定したグループに自分が含まれかつファ
イルの所有者であるか、スーパユーザでなければなりません。
.Sh 診断
.Nm
は成功時に 0 を、エラーが起こった時に 0 より大きな値を戻り値とし
て返します。
.Sh 互換性
以前のバージョンのシステムでは、
シンボリックリンクにはグループは有りませんでした。
.Pp
.Fl v
オプションは非標準であり、スクリプト中での使用は非推奨です。
.Sh 関連ファイル
.Bl -tag -width /etc/group -compact
.It Pa /etc/group
グループ ID を記述したファイル。
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr chown 2 ,
.Xr fts 3 ,
.Xr group 5 ,
.Xr passwd 5 ,
.Xr symlink 7 ,
.Xr chown 8
.Sh 規格
.Nm chgrp
ユーティリティは
.St -p1003.2
互換であると考えられています。
