.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" Michael Rendell.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)col.1	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/29/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/col/col.1,v 1.4.2.2 2000/12/08 15:13:26 ru Exp %
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd June 29, 1993
.Dt COL 1
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm col
.Nd 入力から逆行送り (reverse line feed) を取り除くフィルタ
.Sh 書式
.Nm col
.Op Fl bfx
.Op Fl l Ar num
.Sh 解説
.Nm col
は、出力が順方向の行送りと半行送りで正しい順序になるように逆行送り
(と半逆行送り) を取り除き、空白をなるべくタブに置き換えます。
これは、
.Xr nroff 1
と
.Xr tbl  1
の出力を処理する場合に便利です。
.Pp
.Nm col
は標準入力を読み込み、標準出力に出力します。
.Pp
オプションには以下のものがあります。
.Bl -tag -width indent 
.It Fl b
バックスペースを出力せず、各桁の位置に最後に書かれた文字だけを
表示します。
.It Fl f
順方向の半行送りを許します(``詳細 (fine) '' モード)。
半行送りの境界に打たれる文字は、通常次の行に表示されます。
.It Fl x
タブのかわりに複数の空白を出力します。
.It Fl l Ar num
メモリに、少なくとも
.Ar num
行をバッファリングします。
デフォルトで 128 行までバッファリングされます。
.El
.Pp
.Nm
が理解できる復帰動作の制御文字とその 10 進値の一覧を以下の表に示します。
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width "carriage return" -compact
.It ESC\-7
逆行送り (エスケープ 7)
.It ESC\-8
半逆行送り (エスケープ 8)
.It ESC\-9
半行送り (エスケープ 9)
.It backspace
一桁戻る (8); 最初の桁では無視されます
.It carriage return
(13)
.It newline
改行 (10); 復帰動作も同時に行ないます
.It shift in
通常の文字セットにシフトします (15)
.It shift out
異なる文字セットにシフトします (14)
.It space
一桁移動します (32)
.It tab
次のタブストップまで移動します (9)
.It vertical tab
逆行送り (11)
.El
.Pp
認識できないすべての制御文字とエスケープシーケンスは捨てられます。
.Pp
.Nm
は、読み込まれた通りに文字セットの移り変わりを記憶し、
出力時に文字セットが正しくなるようにします。
.Pp
入力が最後に表示された行に戻ろうとすると、
.Nm
は警告メッセージを表示します。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr expand 1 ,
.Xr nroff 1 ,
.Xr tbl 1
.Sh 歴史
.Nm
コマンドは
.At v6
から登場しました。
