.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)colrm.1	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/6/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/colrm/colrm.1,v 1.10 2004/08/04 02:51:46 tjr Exp %
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd August 4, 2004
.Dt COLRM 1
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm colrm
.Nd 指定した桁を削除する
.Sh 書式
.Nm colrm
.Op Ar start Op Ar stop
.Sh 解説
.Nm
ユーティリティは、指定された桁をファイルの各行から削除します。
1 桁は 1 文字分に相当します。
ファイルは標準入力から読み込まれ、結果は標準出力に書き出されます。
.Pp
.Ar start
だけが与えられた場合は、
.Ar start
桁目より前のすべての桁が表示されます。
.Ar start
と
.Ar stop
の両方が指定された場合は、
.Ar start
桁目より前のすべての桁と、
.Ar stop
桁目より後のすべての桁が表示されます。
桁の番号づけは 0 ではなく 1 から始まります。
.Pp
タブ文字を読むと、その桁位置の次に来る 8 の倍数の桁まで桁位置を進めます。
バックスペース文字を読むと、桁位置を 1 戻します。
.Sh 環境変数
.Xr environ 7
に記述されているように、
.Ev LANG , LC_ALL , LC_CTYPE
環境変数は
.Nm
の実行に影響を及ぼします。
.Sh 診断
.Ex -std
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr awk 1 ,
.Xr column 1 ,
.Xr cut 1 ,
.Xr paste 1
.Sh 歴史
.Nm
コマンドは
.Bx 3.0
から登場しました。
