.\" Copyright (c) 1989, 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)column.1	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/6/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/column/column.1,v 1.5.2.1 2000/06/30 09:51:44 ps Exp %
.\" jpman %Id: column.1,v 1.2 1997/05/17 15:57:10 horikawa Stab %
.\"
.Dd June 6, 1993
.Os
.Dt COLUMN 1
.Sh 名称
.Nm column
.Nd 入力を複数列に整形する
.Sh 書式
.Nm column
.Op Fl tx
.Op Fl c Ar columns
.Op Fl s Ar sep
.Op Ar
.Sh 解説
.Nm
は、入力を複数カラムに分けて整形します。
列より先に行を埋めます。
.Ar file
が 指定されていれば
.Ar file
を、指定されていなければ標準入力を処理します。空行は無視されます。
.Pp
オプション:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl c
表示の幅を
.Ar columns
にしてフォーマットします。
.It Fl s
.Fl t 
オプションを使う時に、入力行をカラムに分ける区切り文字 (複数でも良い) を
指定します。
.It Fl t
入力行のカラム数を判定し、表を作ります。
カラムの区切りは、
.Fl s
オプションで指定された文字か、指定されていない場合は空白文字です。
画面表示をきれいに整形するのに便利です。
.It Fl x
行を埋める前に列を埋めます。
.El
.Sh 診断
.Nm
は、成功した場合は 0 を、エラーが起きた場合は 0 より大きな値を返します。
.Sh 環境変数
.Bl -tag -width COLUMNS
.It Ev COLUMNS
他に情報が得られない時に、画面の横幅を指定します。
.Sh 使用例
.Dl (printf \&"PERM LINKS OWNER GROUP SIZE MONTH DAY \&"\ \&;\ \&\e
.Dl printf \&"HH:MM/YEAR NAME\en\&"\ \&;\ \&\e
.Dl ls -l \&| sed 1d) \&| column -t
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr colrm 1 ,
.Xr ls 1 ,
.Xr paste 1 ,
.Xr sort 1
.Sh 歴史
.Nm
コマンドは
.Bx 4.3 Reno
から登場しました。
