.\" Copyright (c) 1989, 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     From: @(#)comm.1	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/6/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/comm/comm.1,v 1.12 2004/07/02 22:56:14 tjr Exp %
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd July 3, 2004
.Os
.Dt COMM 1
.Sh 名称
.Nm comm
.Nd 2つのファイルの共通な行もしくは共通でない行を出力する
.Sh 書式
.Nm comm
.Op Fl 123i
.Ar file1 file2
.Sh 解説
.Nm
ユーティリティは、
.Ar file1
と
.Ar file2
を読み込んで(辞書的にソートされている必要があります)、
3 つのテキストカラムを出力します:
それぞれ、
.Ar file1
のみにある行;
.Ar file2
のみにある行;
両方のファイルにある行です。
.Pp
ファイル名 ``-'' は標準入力を意味します。
.Pp
オプションとしては以下のものがあります:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl 1
第 1 カラムの表示をしません。
.It Fl 2
第 2 カラムの表示をしません。
.It Fl 3
第 3 カラムの表示をしません。
.It Fl i
行比較を大文字と小文字を区別せずに行います。
.El
.Pp
それぞれのカラムの前にタブが付属しますが、
タブの数はそのカラムより番号の若いカラムで表示されるカラムの数に等しいです。
例えば、第 2 カラムの表示をしない場合、
第 1 カラムを表示する行では先頭にタブは付属せず、
第 3 カラムを表示する行では先頭にタブが 1 つ付属します。
.Pp
.Nm
はファイルが辞書的にソートされている事を期待します;
全ての文字が行の比較に使用されるからです。
.Sh 環境変数
.Xr environ 7
に記述されているように、
.Ev LANG , LC_ALL , LC_CTYPE
環境変数は
.Nm
の実行に影響を及ぼします。
.Sh 診断
.Ex -std
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr cmp 1 ,
.Xr diff 1 ,
.Xr sort 1 ,
.Xr uniq 1
.Sh 規格
.Nm
ユーティリティは
.St -p1003.2-92
を満します。
.Pp
.Fl i
オプションは、
.Tn POSIX
標準を拡張しています。
.Sh 歴史
.Nm
コマンドは
.At v4
で登場しました。
