.\" Copyright (c) 2002 Tim J. Robbins.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/csplit/csplit.1,v 1.8 2004/07/12 10:17:02 tjr Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd July 12, 2004
.Dt CSPLIT 1
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm csplit
.Nd 文脈に応じたファイルの分割
.Sh 書式
.Nm
.Op Fl ks
.Op Fl f Ar prefix
.Op Fl n Ar number
.Ar file args ...
.Sh 解説
.Nm
ユーティリティは、パターン
.Ar args
を使用して
.Ar file
を分割します。
.Ar file
がダッシュ
.Pq Sq Fl
の場合、
.Nm
は標準入力を読みます。
.Pp
オプションは次の通りです:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl f Ar prefix
生成されるファイルに、
.Ar prefix
で開始する名前を与えます。
デフォルトは
.Dq Pa xx
です。
.It Fl k
エラーが発生したり、
.Dv HUP ,
.Dv INT ,
.Dv TERM
シグナルを受信しても、出力ファイルを削除しません。
.It Fl n Ar number
.Ar number
個の 10 進数字を
.Ar prefix
の後で使ってファイル名を作成します。
デフォルトは 2 です。
.It Fl s
各出力ファイル作成時に、それらの大きさを標準出力へ書きません。
.El
.Pp
.Ar args
オペランドは、次のパターンの組み合わせです:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Xo
.Sm off
.Cm / Ar regexp Cm / Op Oo Cm + | - Oc Ar offset
.Sm on
.Xc
入力の、現在の行から、指定された基本正規表現 (これを含みません)
までからなるファイルを作成します。
省略可能な
.Ar offset
を指定すると、その行からマッチがとられます。
.It Xo
.Sm off
.Cm % Ar regexp Cm % Op Oo Cm + | - Oc Ar offset
.Sm on
.Xc
上記と同じですが、出力ファイルは作成されません。
.It Ar line_no
入力の、現在の行から、指定された行番号 (これを含みません) まで
からなるファイルを作成します。
.It Cm { Ns Ar num Ns Cm }
直前のパターンを指定した回数繰り返します。
これが行番号パターンに続く場合、
.Ar num
回にわたり、
.Ar line_no
行毎に新規ファイルが作成されます。
ファイルの最初の行は、歴史的な理由から行番号 1 です。
.El
.Pp
すべてのパターンが処理されると、残りの入力データ
(もしあれば) は新規ファイルに書かれます。
.Pp
現在の行より前での分割や、ファイルの終端より後での分割を要求すると、
エラーになります。
.Sh 環境変数
.Ev LANG , LC_ALL , LC_CTYPE ,
.Ev LC_COLLATE
の環境変数が、
.Xr environ 7
の記述通りに、
.Nm
の実行に影響します。
.Sh 使用例
.Xr mdoc 7
ファイル
.Pa foo.1
を、各セクション毎に 1 ファイルへと分割します (最大 20 個):
.Pp
.Dl "csplit -k foo.1 '%^\e.Sh%' '/^\e.Sh/' '{20}'"
.Pp
最初の 99 行の後およびその後の 100 行毎に、標準入力を分割します。
.Pp
.Dl "csplit -k - 100 '{19}'"
.Sh 診断
.Ex -std
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr sed 1 ,
.Xr split 1 ,
.Xr re_format 7
.Sh 歴史
.Nm
コマンドは PWB UNIX に登場しました。
.Sh 規格
.Nm
ユーティリティは
.St -p1003.1-2001
に適合しています。
