.\" Copyright (c) 1992,1993,1994 Hellmuth Michaelis
.\"
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by Hellmuth Michaelis
.\" 4. The name authors may not be used to endorse or promote products
.\"    derived from this software without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHORS ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" @(#)cursor.1, 3.20, Last Edit-Date: [Mon Dec 19 20:30:40 1994]
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.sbin/pcvt/cursor/cursor.1,v 1.6.2.2 2000/12/14 14:10:38 ru Exp %
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd December 19, 1994
.Dt CURSOR 1
.Sh 名称
.Nm cursor
.Nd pcvt VT220 ビデオドライバでカーソルの形状を設定する
.Sh 書式
.Nm cursor
.Op Fl d Ar device
.Op Fl n Ar screenno
.Op Fl s Ar lineno
.Op Fl e Ar lineno
.Sh 解説
.Nm
ユーティリティは、上述のドライバの仮想画面でカーソル形状を設定します。
.Pp
オプションは以下の通りです。
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl d
カーソルの形状を設定するデバイスを指定します。
.It Fl n
次に続く変数で、仮想画面の番号を設定します。変数が設定されていない場合、
現在の仮想端末か、 -d 変数での画面が仮定されます。
.It Fl s
カーソルが始まる (上の) スキャンラインを設定します。
.It Fl e
カーソルが終る (下の) スキャンラインを設定します。
.El
.Pp
変数は現在使用中の文字フォントの大きさに基づいて調整される必要があることに
注意してください。
現在 8, 14, 16 のスキャンラインの EGA, VGA ボードだけが
サポートされています。
.Sh 使用例
コマンド
.Dq Li cursor -s3 -e10
は、14 ライン VGA 画面の現在の仮想画面で、カーソルを四角形にします。
.Sh バグ
知られているバグはありません。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr loadfont 1 ,
.Xr scon 1 ,
.Xr pcvt 4
