.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1988, 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)hostname.1	8.1 (Berkeley) 5/31/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/bin/domainname/domainname.1,v 1.17 2004/07/02 21:04:17 ru Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd September 18, 1994
.Dt DOMAINNAME 1
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm domainname
.Nd 現在の YP/NIS ドメイン名の設定、表示
.Sh 書式
.Nm domainname
.Op Ar ypdomain
.Sh 解説
.Nm
ユーティリティは、現在の YP/NIS ドメイン名の表示をします。
スーパユーザは、引数にドメイン名を指定することでドメイン名の設定を
することもできます。
通常このコマンドは、起動時のネットワークの初期化スクリプト
.Pa /etc/rc.network
で実行されます。
.Sh 注意事項
YP/NIS (昔は ``Yellow Pages'' でしたが、法律上の問題で改名しました)
のドメイン名は、
必ずしもドメインネームシステム (DNS) のドメイン名とは関係有りません。
しかし、しばしば管理上の便利さから同じに設定される
場合があるようです。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr getdomainname 3
.Sh 歴史
.Nm domainname
コマンドは
.Tn SunOS
の同様のコマンドをベースに、
.Fx 1.1
で登場しました。
