.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1999 Hellmuth Michaelis.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	%Id: dtmfdecode.1,v 1.6 1999/12/13 22:11:55 hm Exp %
.\"
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.sbin/i4b/dtmfdecode/dtmfdecode.1,v 1.5.2.2 2000/12/12 10:14:47 ru Exp %
.\"
.\"	last edit-date: [Mon Dec 13 22:53:13 1999]
.\"
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd February 15, 1999
.Dt DTMFDECODE 1
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm dtmfdecode
.Nd A-law オーディオデータから DTMF トーンへのデコード
.Sh 書式
.Nm
.Sh 解説
.Nm
は isdn4bsd パッケージの一部分です。オーディオストリーム中の DTMF 
トーンを見つけるために使われます。
.Pp
このコマンドは、標準入力から G.711 A-Law 形式のデータによる音声を
読み込み、標準出力にに ASCII 文字として、見つけた番号を出力します。
.Pp
検波器は integer double-cross recursive algorithm による 8 つの狭帯域
バンドパスフィルタによって実装されています。検波した信号にヒステリシスと
アンチバウンスを与えるために、様々なアドホックな方法が試みられています。
.Sh 使用例
次のコマンド
.Bd -literal -offset indent
dtmfdecode < beep.al 
.Ed
.Pp
は標準出力に "1" を表示します。
.Sh 規格
ITU Recommendations G.711
.Sh 作者
.Nm
は
.An Poul-Henning Kamp Aq phk@FreeBSD.org
が作成しました。
このマニュアルページは
.An Hellmuth Michaelis Aq hm@FreeBSD.org
が書きました。
