.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)du.1	8.2 (Berkeley) 4/1/94
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/du/du.1,v 1.15.2.2 2000/10/16 10:02:49 ru Exp %
.\"
.\" jpman %Id: du.1,v 1.3 1997/06/18 16:43:08 horikawa Stab %
.\"
.Dd April 1, 1994
.Dt DU 1
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm du
.Nd ディスク使用統計の表示
.Sh 書式
.Nm du
.Op Fl P | Fl H | Fl L
.Op Fl a | s | d Ar depth
.Op Fl c
.Op Fl h | k
.Op Fl x
.Op Ar
.Sh 解説
.Nm
ユーティリティは、引数に指定された各ファイル、および
引数に指定された各ディレクトリを根とするファイル階層内にある
各ディレクトリ内のディスク使用統計をブロック単位で表示します。
引数にファイルが指定されなかった場合には、カレントディレクトリを
根とするファイル階層内のブロック単位の使用統計を表示します。
.Fl k
フラグを指定した場合、表示は 1024 バイトブロックにて行います。
指定しなかった場合は、
.Xr getbsize 3
が使用され、どのブロックサイズを使用するかを決定します。
端数となるブロック数は切り上げられます。
.Pp
オプションは以下の通りです:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl P
シンボリックリンクを全くたどりません。(デフォルト)
.It Fl H
コマンドラインに指定されたシンボリックリンクをたどります。
階層内を調べている途中で見つかったシンボリックリンクはたどりません。
.It Fl L
コマンドラインのシンボリックリンク
および階層内を調べている途中で見つかったシンボリックリンクをたどります。
.It Fl a
ファイル階層内の各ファイルの情報も表示します。
.It Fl h
「人間が読める」出力。単位のサフィックス、
Byte, Kilobyte, Megabyte, Gigabyte, Terabyte and Petabyte を付けます。
.It Fl r
読めないディレクトリやオープンできないファイルといったメッセージを生成します。
これはデフォルトです。
このオプションは、単に
.St -xpg4
準拠のためだけにあります。
.It Fl s
指定したファイルのエントリを表示します。(
.Fl d
0 と等価です)
.It Fl d Ar depth
深さ
.Ar depth
までの全てのファイルとディレクトリだけを表示します．
.It Fl c
総計を表示します。
.It Fl k
1024 バイト (1 キロバイト) ブロックとして報告します。
.It Fl x
ファイルシステムマウントポイントはたどりません。
.El
.Pp
.Nm
は、
.Fl H
もしくは
.Fl L
オプションが指定されない限り、シンボリックリンクの大きさは
リンクの参照先の大きさではなく、シンボリックリンク自身の
占める大きさとして数えます。
もし
.Fl H
もしくは
.Fl L
のどちらかのオプションが指定された場合には、
たどられた全てのシンボリック
リンクの大きさは数えられず、また表示もされません。
.Pp
複数のハードリンクを持つファイルは、
.Nm
の実行中、1 回しか数えられず、1 回しか表示されません。
.Sh 環境変数
.Bl -tag -width BLOCKSIZE
.It Ev BLOCKSIZE
.Ev BLOCKSIZE
環境変数が指定されていて
.Fl k
オプションが指定されていないと、ブロック数はそのブロックサイズ単位で
表示されます。
.Ev BLOCKSIZE
環境変数が指定されておらず
.Fl k
オプションが指定されていないと、ブロック数は 512 ブロックサイズ単位で
表示されます。
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr df 1 ,
.Xr fts 3 ,
.Xr symlink 7 ,
.Xr quot 8
.Sh 歴史
.Nm
コマンドは、
.At v1
で登場しました。
