.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)echo.1	8.1 (Berkeley) 7/22/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/bin/echo/echo.1,v 1.6.2.3 2000/01/14 11:15:21 sheldonh Exp %
.\" jpman %Id: echo.1,v 1.2 1997/04/02 00:07:04 mutoh Stab %
.\"
.Dd July 22, 1993
.Dt ECHO 1
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm echo
.Nd 引数の文字列を標準出力に出力する
.Sh 書式
.Nm echo
.Op Fl n
.Op "string ..."
.Sh 解説
.Nm
は、各引数の間を 1 つの空白文字 (`` '') で区切り、最後に改行 (``\en'') を
付加したものを標準出力に書き出します。
.Pp
オプションとしては以下のものがあります:
.Bl -tag -width flag
.It Fl n
改行を付加しません。
これは、iBCS2 互換システムで行われていたように、
文字列の最後に `\ec' を付け加える事でも実現できます。
.El
.Pp
シェルによっては、本ユーティリティと似たまたは同じ、組み込みの
.Nm
コマンドを提供しているものがあります。
.Xr builtin 1
マニュアルページを参照してください。
.Sh 診断
成功した場合は 0 を、エラーが起きた場合は 0 より大きな値を返します。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr builtin 1 ,
.Xr csh 1 ,
.Xr printf 1 ,
.Xr sh 1
.Sh 規格
.Nm
ユーティリティは
.St -p1003.2
準拠です。
