.\" Copyright (c) 2003 David O'Brien
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/elfdump/elfdump.1,v 1.4 2003/06/28 22:30:46 ru Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd January 15, 2003
.Dt ELFDUMP 1
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm elfdump
.Nd 
.Tn ELF
ファイルに関する情報の表示
.Sh 書式
.Nm
.Fl a | cdeGhinprs
.Op Fl w Ar file
.Ar file
.Sh 解説
.Nm
ユーティリティは、指定された
.Tn ELF
.Ar file
の様々な情報を表示します。
.Pp
オプションは次の通りです:
.Bl -tag -width ".Fl w Ar file"
.It Fl a
すべての情報を表示します。
.It Fl c
共有ヘッダを表示します。
.It Fl d
動的シンボルを表示します。
.It Fl e
ELF ヘッダを表示します。
.It Fl G
GOT を表示します。
.It Fl h
ハッシュ値を表示します。
.It Fl i
動的インタプリタを表示します。
.It Fl n
note セクションを表示します。
.It Fl p
プログラムヘッダを表示します。
.It Fl r
再配置を表示します。
.It Fl s
シンボル表を表示します。
.It Fl w Ar file
出力を、標準出力の代りに
.Ar file
に書き出します。
.El
.Sh 使用例
典型的な
.Nm
コマンドの使用例は次の通りです:
.Pp
.Dl "elfdump -a -w output /bin/ls"
.Sh 診断
.Ex -std
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr objdump 1 ,
.Xr readelf 1
.Rs
.%A "AT&T Unix Systems Labs"
.%T "System V Application Binary Interface"
.%O http://www.sco.com/developers/gabi/
.Re
.Sh 歴史
.Nm
ユーティリティが最初に登場したのは
.Fx 5.0
です。
.Sh 作者
.An -nosplit
.Nm
ユーティリティは
.An Jake Burkholder Aq jake@FreeBSD.org
が記述しました。
このマニュアルページは
.An David O'Brien Aq obrien@FreeBSD.org
が記述しました。
.Sh バグ
.Tn ELF
gABI を完全に実装しているわけではありません。
