.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)fold.1	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/6/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/fold/fold.1,v 1.12 2004/08/02 11:15:01 tjr Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd August 2, 2004
.Dt FOLD 1
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm fold
.Nd 有限桁の出力デバイスのために長い行を折り返すフィルタ
.Sh 書式
.Nm
.Op Fl bs
.Op Fl w Ar width
.Op Ar
.Sh 解説
.Nm
ユーティリティは、file が指定されていればそのファイルを、
指定されていなければ標準入力を読み込み、
指定された長さを超えるような入力行に対しては改行を入れて複数の行に分割します。
デフォルトでは 80 コラムになるようにします。
.Pp
オプションとしては以下のものがあります:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl b
.Ar width
を、カラム位置ではなく、バイト位置として数えます。
.It Fl s
最初の
.Ar width
カラム位置 (またはバイト数) 以内の最期の空白の後に、行を折り返します。
.It Fl w Ar width
デフォルトの 80 コラムのかわりに、一行の長さを指定します。
タブがある場合は、
.Ar width
として 8 の倍数を指定するか、さもなければ、
.Nm
の前に
.Xr expand 1
を使用して、タブを空白文字に置き換えてください。
.El
.Sh 環境変数
.Xr environ 7
に記述されているように、
.Ev LANG , LC_ALL , LC_CTYPE
環境変数は
.Nm
の実行に影響を及ぼします。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr expand 1 ,
.Xr fmt 1
.Sh 規格
.Nm
ユーティリティは、
.St -p1003.1-2001
に適合しています。
.Sh バグ
アンダラインがある場合には、fold がうまくいかないことがあります。
