.\" Copyright (c) 1989, 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" Robert Corbett.
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)fpr.1	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/6/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/fpr/fpr.1,v 1.1.1.1.10.1 2000/03/03 11:43:17 sheldonh Exp %
.\" jpman %Id: fpr.1,v 1.2 1997/03/29 03:57:18 horikawa Stab %
.\"
.Dd June 6, 1993
.Dt FPR 1
.Os BSD 4.2
.Sh 名称
.Nm fpr
.Nd FORTRAN の出力する改行制御文字を含むファイルを読み込んで、通常の出力に変換する
.Sh 書式
.Nm fpr
.Sh 解説
.Nm fpr
はフィルタであり、
FORTRAN の改行制御規則で整形されたファイルを、
.Ux
ラインプリンタ規則で整形されたファイルに変換します。
.Pp
.Nm fpr
は入力を出力をコピーする間に、
改行制御文字を
.Xr lpr 1
を使用した時に適切な動作を行う改行制御文字へと変換します。
各行の先頭にある 1 文字が、改行制御文字として変換の対象となります。
この文字は、次のような意味に解釈されます。
.Bd -ragged -offset indent -compact
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It 空白
1 行進みます。
.It 0
2 行進みます。
.It 1
次のページの最初の行に進みます。
.It +
進みません。(重ね打ちすることになります。)
.El
.Ed
.Pp
空行は先頭文字が空白の場合と同様に扱われます。改行制御文字として表われた
空白は削除されます。"0" は改行に変換されます。"1" は改頁に変換されます。
"+" は後退 (back-space) を使用して実現されます。
.Sh 使用例
FORTRAN
のプログラム a.out の出力をラインプリンタに出力する場合は、次のようにします。
.Pp
.Dl a.out \&| fpr \&| lpr
.Pp
FORTRAN
プログラムの出力 f77.output をラインプリンタに出力する場合は、次のようにします。
.Pp
.Dl fpr \&< f77.output \&| lpr
.Sh 歴史
.Nm fpr
コマンドは
.Bx 4.2
から登場しました。
.Sh バグ
.Nm fpr
は、1 行が 170 文字以上の場合、結果が保証されません。
