.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1990, 1993
.\"   The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"   @(#)from.1      8.2 (Berkeley) 12/30/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/from/from.1,v 1.7 1999/08/28 01:01:22 peter Exp %
.\"
.\" jpman %Id: from.1,v 1.2 1997/03/29 03:57:45 horikawa Stab %
.\"
.Dd December 30, 1993
.Dt FROM 1
.Os BSD 4
.Sh 名称
.Nm from
.Nd スプールにあるメールが誰から送られたものかを表示する
.Pp
.Sh 書式
.Nm from
.Op Fl c
.Op Fl s Ar sender
.Op Fl f Ar file
.Op Ar user
.Pp
.Sh 解説
.Nm from
は、起動したユーザのポストオフィス(デフォルトは
.Pa /var/mail/*
)を読んで、メールのヘッダを表示します。
.Pp
オプション:
.Bl -tag -width Fl
.It Fl c
メッセージ数を表示するだけで、終了します。
.It Fl f Ar file
デフォルトのポストオフィス(
.Pa /var/mail/*
のファイル)のかわりに、
指定された
.Ar file
を読んでメールのヘッダを表示します。このとき、
引数
.Ar user
は無視されます。
ファイル名が
.Ar -
の場合、標準有力より読み込みます。
.It Fl s  Ar sender
From アドレス(メールの送り手)に、
.Ar sender
で指定された文字列を含むメールに関するものだけ
を表示します。
.El
.Pp
.Ar user
が与えられると、指定された
.Ar user
のポストオフィスをチェックします(権限が必要です)。
.Pp
.Sh 環境変数
.Bl -tag -width Fl
.It Ev MAIL
セットされている場合、コマンドを起動したユーザのメールボックスとなります。
指定されていない場合には /var/mail のデフォルトのものが使用されます。
.Sh 関連ファイル
.Bl -tag -width /var/mail/* -compact
.It Pa /var/mail/*
メールのポストオフィス
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr biff 1 ,
.Xr mail 1
.Pp
.Sh 歴史
.Nm from
コマンドは
.Bx 3.0
から登場しました。
