.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" Asa Romberger and Jerry Berkman.
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)fsplit.1	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/6/93
.\" jpman %Id: fsplit.1,v 1.2 1997/05/16 00:20:41 mutoh Stab %
.\"
.Dd June 6, 1993
.Dt FSPLIT 1
.Os BSD 4.2
.Sh 名称
.Nm fsplit
.Nd Fortran のソースファイルをサブルーチン毎の別ファイルに分割する
.Sh 書式
.Nm fsplit
.Op Fl e Ar efile
\&...
.Op Ar file
.Sh 解説
.Nm
は、ファイルまたは標準入力から Fortran ソースコードを読み込み、
入力したルーチン毎に
.Ar name.f 
というファイルに分割しようと試みます。
.Ar name
は、プログラムユニットの名前です (関数、サブルーチン、ブロックデータ、
プログラムなど)。
名前なしのブロックデータサブプログラムには、
.Ar blkdtaNNN.f
という形式のファイル名が付けられます。
NNN の部分は 3 桁の数字で、既存のファイルとぶつからないような番号を
付けます。
名前なしのメインプログラムには、同様に、
.Ar mainNNN.f 
という形式のファイル名を付けます。
プログラムユニットの分類ができなかったり、
既に同じ名前を持つ 
.Ar name.f 
というファイルが存在する時には、存在しない
.Ar zzzNNN.f 
というファイル名を使用します。
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width Fl
.It Fl e Ar efile 
通常、各サブプログラムユニットは、全て別のファイルに分割します。
.Fl e
オプションを指定した場合には、指定したサブプログラムユニットのみを、
別々のファイルに分割します。例えば次のように指定した場合、
.Pp
.Dl fsplit -e readit -e doit prog.f
.Pp
readit と doit というユニットだけを別々のファイルに分割します。
.El
.Sh 診断
.Fl e
オプションにより指定された名前が見つからない場合、標準エラー出力に
診断メッセージを出力します。
.Sh 歴史
.Nm
コマンドは、
.Bx 4.2 
から登場しました。
.Sh 作者
.An Asa Romberger
と
.An Jerry Berkman
。
.Sh バグ
.Nm
は、サブプログラムユニットの、コメントでない最初の行にサブプログラム名が
書かれているものと仮定しています。
標準的でない書き方のソースファイルでは、うまく動作しないかもしれません。
.Pp
生成されるファイル名を予測しなければならないために、
名前なしのメインプログラムやブロックデータサブプログラムを取り出すために
.Fl e
オプションを使うのは困難です。
