.\" Copyright (c) 2000 Paul Saab <ps@FreeBSD.org>
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/fsync/fsync.1,v 1.6.8.1 2005/02/18 16:15:35 delphij Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\" WORD: permanent storage device     ディスク [fsync.1]
.Dd January 25, 2005
.Dt FSYNC 1
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm fsync
.Nd メモリ上のファイルの状態とディスク上での状態を同期させる
.Sh 書式
.Nm
.Ar
.Sh 解説
.Nm
ユーティリティは、コマンドラインで与えられたすべてのファイルに対し、
変更のあるデータおよびメタデータをすべてディスクに書き込むように
します。
.Pp
.Nm
ユーティリティは、
.Xr fsync 2
ファンクションコールを使用します。
.Sh 終了ステータス
エラーが起きた場合は、
.Nm
ユーティリティは次のファイルに進み、>0 で終了します。
それ以外の場合は 0 で終了します。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr fsync 2 ,
.Xr sync 2 ,
.Xr syncer 4 ,
.Xr halt 8 ,
.Xr reboot 8
.Sh 歴史
.Nm
コマンドは、最初に
.Fx 4.3
で登場しました。
