.\" Copyright (c) 1999
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"	and David E. O'Brien
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" %FreeBSD: src/gnu/usr.bin/binutils/gasp/gasp.1,v 1.1.2.2 2000/12/27 14:02:15 ru Exp %
.\"
.Dd December 29, 1999
.\" jpman %Id: gasp.1,v 1.3 2000/04/11 21:30:31 horikawa Stab %
.Dt GASP 1
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm gasp
.Nd GNU アセンブラのマクロプリプロセッサ 
.Sh 書式
.Nm
.Op Fl adhMpsuv
.Op Fl c Ar char
.Op Fl o Ar outfile
.Op Fl D Ns Ar name=value
.Op Fl I Ns Ar path
.Op infile
.Sh 解説
.Nm
は GNU アセンブラのマクロプリプロセッサです。
引数
.Ar infile
が処理されてその結果のテキストが標準出力へ送られます。
.Pp
オプションは以下の通りです。
.Bl -tag -width "-Dname=value"
.It Fl a
代替マクロモードになります。
.Op Fl \-alternate
とも指定出来ます。
.It Fl c Ar char
コメント文字を `!' から変更します。
.Op Fl \-commentchar\ char
とも指定出来ます。
.It Fl d
限定的なデバッグ情報を印字します。
.Op Fl \-debug
とも指定出来ます。
.It Fl h
へルプメッセージを印字します。
.Op Fl \-help
とも指定出来ます。
.It Fl M
MRI 互換モードになります。
.Op Fl \-mri
とも指定出来ます。
.It Fl o Ar outfile
出力ファイルを指定します。
.Op Fl \-output\ outfile
とも指定出来ます。
.It Fl p
行番号を印字します。
.Op Fl \-print
とも指定出来ます。
.It Fl s
ソースファイルをコメントとしてコピーします。
.Op Fl \-copysource
とも指定出来ます。
.It Fl u
不適切な入れ子を許します。
.Op Fl \-unreasonable
とも指定出来ます。
.It Fl v
プログラムバージョンを印字して終了します。
.Op Fl \-version
とも指定出来ます。
.It Fl D Ns Ar name=value
プリプロセッサシンボル
.Ar name
を定義し、"value" で指定された値を持たせます。
.It Fl I Ns Ar path
.Ar path
をパスのリストに加えます。
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr cpp 1 ,
.Xr m4 1
.Rs
.%T The gasp GNU hypertext system info pages
.Re
.Sh 歴史
.Nm
このコマンドはGNU binutilsパッケージの一部です。
.Sh 著者
このマニュアルページは
.An David E. O'Brien
が書きました。
