.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1990, 1992, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)gcore.1	8.2 (Berkeley) 4/18/94
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/gcore/gcore.1,v 1.8.2.1 2000/12/19 16:22:13 ru Exp %
.\" jpman %Id: gcore.1,v 1.3 1997/08/20 12:27:20 horikawa Stab %
.\"
.Dd April 18, 1994
.Dt GCORE 1
.Os BSD 4.2
.Sh 名称
.Nm gcore
.Nd 実行中のプロセスのコアイメージを取得する
.Sh 書式
.Nm gcore
.Op Fl s
.Op Fl c Ar core
.Op Ar exec
.Ar pid
.Sh 解説
.Nm gcore
は指定したプロセスのコアイメージを生成します。
このコアイメージは
.Xr gdb  1
で用いるのに適したものです。
デフォルトでは、コアはファイル
.Dq Pa core.<pid>
に書き出されます。
プロセス ID
.Ar pid
をコマンドラインで指定する必要があります。
実行可能イメージは指定されない場合、
.Nm
は
.Dq Pa /proc/<pid>/file
を使用します。
.Pp
オプションは以下の通りです:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl c
コアファイルを
.Dq Pa core.<pid>
ではなく、指定したファイルに書き出します。
.It Fl s
コアイメージを集める間プロセスを停止し、
集め終わったらプロセスを再開させます。
これにより、生成されたコアダンプが一貫性のとれた状態になっていることを
保証できます。
プロセスはたとえ既に停止していても、再開されます。
同じ効果は
.Xr kill 1
を用いて手動で行うことも可能です。
.El
.Sh 関連ファイル
.Bl -tag -width /var/log/messages -compact
.It Pa core.<pid>
コアイメージ
.It Pa /proc/<pid>/file
実行可能イメージ
.El
.Sh 歴史
.Nm gcore
は
.Bx 4.2
から登場しました。
.Sh バグ
.Nm gcore
動作中にコンテキスト切り替えやページング動作が発生すると混乱します。
最善の結果を得るには、-s を用いて目的プロセスを一時停止させて下さい。
.Pp
.Nm gcore
はオリジナルの
.Bx 4.2
バージョンと互換ではありません。
