.ig \"-*- nroff -*-
Copyright (C) 1989-2000 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of
this manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice
are preserved on all copies.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
permission notice identical to this one.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this
manual into another language, under the above conditions for modified
versions, except that this permission notice may be included in
translations approved by the Free Software Foundation instead of in
the original English.
..
.\" jpman %Id: grog.1,v 1.3 2000/04/25 16:53:30 yt-kage Stab %
.TH GROG 1 "7 December 2000" "Groff Version 1.16.1"
.SH 名称
grog \- groff コマンドのオプションを推測する
.SH 書式
.B grog
[
.BI \- option
\|.\|.\|.
]
[
.IR files \|.\|.\|.
]
.SH 解説
.B grog
は
.I files
を読取って
.BR groff  (1)
のオプション
.BR \-e ,
.BR \-man ,
.BR \-me ,
.BR \-mm ,
.BR \-ms ,
.BR \-p ,
.BR \-R ,
.BR \-g ,
.BR \-G ,
.BR \-s ,
.BR \-t
の中でどのオプションが
.IR files
を印字するために必要かを推測し、
それらのオプションを含んだ形での groff コマンドを標準出力に書き出します。
ファイル名として
.B \-
を指定した場合は標準入力を参照します。
ファイルが指定されなかった場合も標準入力を読み取ります。
指定したオプションはすべて書き出されるコマンドに含まれます。
オプションとその引数の間に空白を入れてはいけません。
例えば、
.IP
.B `grog \-Tdvi paper.ms`
.LP
は
.B paper.ms
を印字する適切なコマンドを推測し
.B \-Tdvi
オプションを追加してから実行します。
.SH 関連項目
.BR doctype (1),
.BR groff (1),
.BR troff (1),
.BR tbl (1),
.BR pic (1),
.BR eqn (1),
.BR refer (1),
.BR grn (1),
.BR grap (1),
.BR soelim (1)
