.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1996, 1997 Shigio Yamaguchi. All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by Shigio Yamaguchi.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the author nor the names of any co-contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" jpman %Id: gtags.1,v 1.3 1997/07/27 12:57:00 horikawa Stab %
.\"
.Dd Apr 21, 1997
.Dt GTAGS 1
.Os BSD 4
.Sh 名称
.Nm gtags
.Nd GTAGS や GRTAGS ファイルを作成する
.Sh 書式
.Nm gtags
.Op Fl e
.Op Fl s
.Op Ar dbpath
.Sh 解説
.Nm
は global(1) で用いる GTAGS ファイルや GRTAGS ファイルを
作成します。
.Nm
はサブディレクトリをたどり、ソースファイルを読み、関数の位置を把握して
その情報をタグファイルに保存します。
C や yacc やアセンブラのソースファイルがサポートされています。
このコマンドはソースツリーのルートで実行する必要があります。
.Pp
ソースディレクトリが CDROM のような読み込み専用デバイスの場合、
タグファイルを作成するディレクトリを
.Ar dbpath
に指定します。
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl e
C のソースファイルで、一桁目の '}' を見つけた時点で関数の
終わりとします。
.It Fl s
アセンブラのソースファイルとして扱います(*.s や *.S)。
.Sh 関連ファイル
.Bl -tag -width tags -compact
.It Pa GTAGS
関数定義に関するタグファイルです。
.It Pa GRTAGS
関数参照に関するタグファイルです。
.El
.Sh 診断
.Nm
はエラーが発生すると 1 を、そうでなければ 0 を返します。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr btreeop 1 ,
.Xr gctags 1 ,
.Xr global 1 ,
.Xr htags 1 .
.Sh バグ
GTAGS や GRTAGS はとても大きくなります。
実行前にディスクの空き容量をチェックしてください。

アセンブラのサポートは完璧には程遠く、ソースファイルから ENTRY() と 
ALTENTRY() を抜き出すだけです。
FreeBSD と Linux のカーネルソースでどうにか大丈夫なだけでしょう。
.Sh 作者
Shigio Yamaguchi (shigio@wafu.netgate.net)
.Sh 歴史
.Nm
コマンドは FreeBSD 2.2 で登場しました。
