.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)head.1	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/6/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/head/head.1,v 1.4.2.2 2001/03/06 12:52:42 ru Exp %
.\" jpman %Id: head.1,v 1.2 1997/04/09 23:35:30 mutoh Stab %
.\"
.Dd June 6, 1993
.Dt HEAD 1
.Os BSD 3
.Sh 名称
.Nm head
.Nd ファイルの先頭の数行を表示する
.Sh 書式
.Nm
.Op Fl n Ar count
.Op Fl c Ar bytes
.Op Ar
.Sh 解説
フィルタ
.Nm
は、fileが指定されていればそのファイルを、指定されていなければ標準入力を読み
込み、先頭から
.Ar count
で指定された行数だけ、もしくは
.Ar bytes
だけ表示します。
.Ar count
が指定されていなかった場合は、デフォルトの 10 行を表示します。
.Pp
複数のファイルが指定された場合は、
.Dq ==> XXX <==
という形式の文字列からなるヘッダを付けられます。ここで、
.Dq XXX
は、ファイル名です。
.Pp
.Nm
ユーティリティは、成功時には 0 を返し、エラーの場合は 0 より大きい数を
返します。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr tail 1
.Sh 歴史
.Nm
ユーティリティは
.Bx 3.0
から登場しました。
