.\" Copyright (c) 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)id.1	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/6/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/id/id.1,v 1.7.2.2 2000/12/08 15:13:42 ru Exp %
.\"
.\" jpman %Id: id.1,v 1.2 1997/03/29 04:26:50 horikawa Stab %
.\"
.Dd June 6, 1993
.Dt ID 1
.Os BSD 4.4
.Sh 名称
.Nm id
.Nd ユーザの、ユーザ名とグループ名および各番号を表示する
.Sh 書式
.Nm
.Op Ar user
.Nm
.Fl G Op Fl n
.Op Ar user
.Nm
.Fl P
.Op Ar user
.Nm
.Fl g Op Fl nr
.Op Ar user
.Nm
.Fl p
.Op Ar user
.Nm
.Fl u Op Fl nr
.Op Ar user
.Sh 解説
.Nm
ユーティリティは、
呼び出したプロセスのユーザとグループとを、
名称と ID 番号で標準出力に表示します。
もし実 ID と実効 ID が異なっている場合は、両方とも表示します。
.Pp
もし、
.Ar user
(ユーザ名かユーザ ID)
が指定された場合は、そのユーザのユーザ ID とグループ ID が表示されます。
この場合、実 ID と実効 ID とは同じものとみなされます。
.Pp
オプションとしては以下のものがあります:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl G
グループ ID
(実効グループ、実グループ、その他) を、空白で区切って列挙します。
表示する順序に意味はありません。
.It Fl P
id としてパスワードファイルエントリを表示します。
.It Fl g
実効グループ ID を ID 番号で表示します。
.It Fl n
.Fl G ,
.Fl g ,
.Fl u
のオプションによる表示を、ID 番号ではなく名前による表示にします。
ID 番号に対応する名前がなかった場合は、通常通り ID 番号で表示します。
.It Fl p
人間が見やすい形で表示します。
.Xr getlogin 2
が返すユーザ名がユーザ ID から得られるログイン名と異なっている場合は、 
行頭に
.Dq login
とキーワードがついて
.Xr getlogin 2
で得られる名前が表示されます
.Pf ( Xr su 1
している場合など)。
名前で表示されるユーザ ID は、頭に
.Dq uid
というキーワードをつけて表示されます。
実ユーザ ID が実効ユーザ ID
と異なっていると、
.Dq euid
というキーワードが頭について実ユーザ ID が表示されます。
実グループ ID が実効グループ ID と異なっていると、頭に
.Dq rgid
がついて実グループ名を表示します。
ユーザが属しているグループのリストを、行頭に
.Dq groups
というキーワードをつけて名前で表示します。それぞれ、行を改めて表示されます。
.It Fl r
.Fl g ,
.Fl u
のオプションで実効ユーザ ID/グループ ID ではなく、
実ユーザ ID/グループ ID を表示するようにします。
.It Fl u
実効ユーザ ID を ID 番号で表示します。
.El
.Sh 診断
.Nm
ユーティリティは
成功の場合は 0 を、エラーが起きた場合は 0 より大きな値を返します。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr who 1
.Sh 規格
.Nm
は
.St -p1003.2
準拠です。
.Sh 歴史
伝統的な
.Xr groups 1
コマンドは
.Dq Nm id Fl Gn Op Ar user
と同一です。
.Pp
伝統的な
.Xr whoami 1
コマンドは
.Dq Nm id Fl un
と同一です。
.Pp
.Nm
コマンドは
.Bx 4.4
から登場しました。
