.\" Copyright (c) 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)intro.1	8.2 (Berkeley) 12/30/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/share/man/man1/intro.1,v 1.16 2001/10/23 00:46:13 dd Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd October 21, 2001
.Dt INTRO 1
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm intro
.Nd 通常コマンド (ツールとユーティリティ) の手引
.Sh 解説
マニュアルのセクション1は、
.Bx
ユーザ環境を構成するコマンドのほとんどについて書かれています。
セクション1に含まれるコマンドを以下にいくつか列挙します。
.de OP
.ie \\n(.$-1 .RI "[\ \fB\\$1\fP" "\\$2" "\ ]"
.el .RB "[\ " "\\$1" "\ ]"
..
.Pp
テキストエディタ
.Pp
コマンドシェルインタプリタ
.Pp
検索およびソートツール
.Pp
ファイル操作コマンド
.Pp
システム状態参照コマンド
.Pp
遠隔ファイルコピーコマンド
.Pp
メールコマンド
.Pp
コンパイラおよびコンパイラ関連ツール
.Pp
整形出力ツール
.Pp
ラインプリンタコマンド
.Pp
.Pp
伝統的に、
値 0 はコマンドが完全に成功したことを表し、>0 の値はエラーを表します。
コマンドによっては、
.Xr sysexits 3
で定義されたエラーコードを使用して失敗の種類を記述しようとしますが、
他のコマンドは好き勝手な >0 値 (典型的には 1) を単に設定します。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr apropos 1 ,
.Xr man 1 ,
.Xr intro 2 ,
.Xr intro 3 ,
.Xr sysexits 3 ,
.Xr intro 4 ,
.Xr intro 5 ,
.Xr intro 6 ,
.Xr intro 7 ,
.Xr security 7 ,
.Xr intro 8 ,
.Xr intro 9
.Pp
.%T "UNIX User's Manual Supplementary Documents"
の中のチュートリアル
.Sh 歴史
.Nm
マニュアルは
.At v6
から登場しました。
