.\" Copyright (c) 1994 Adam Glass
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. The name of the Author may not be used to endorse or promote products
.\"    derived from this software without specific prior written permission.
.\" 
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY Adam Glass ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL Adam Glass BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" 
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/ipcrm/ipcrm.1,v 1.7.2.2 2001/03/06 12:52:43 ru Exp %
.\"
.\" jpman %Id: ipcrm.1,v 1.2 1997/05/04 07:58:04 horikawa Stab %
.\""
.Dd August 8, 1994
.Dt IPCRM 1
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm ipcrm
.Nd 指定したメッセージキュー、セマフォセット、共有セグメントを削除する
.Sh 書式
.Nm
.Op Fl q Ar msqid
.Op Fl m Ar shmid
.Op Fl s Ar semid
.Op Fl Q Ar msgkey
.Op Fl M Ar shmkey
.Op Fl S Ar semkey
.Ar ...
.Sh 解説
.Nm ipcrm
は、指定したメッセージキュー、セマフォ、共有メモリセグメントを
削除します。これらの System V IPC オブジェクトは、
作成時につけられるID、もしくはキーで指定することができます。
.Pp
次のようなオプションにて、削除する IPC オブジェクトを指定します。
これらのオプションはいくつでも組み合わせて使用することができます:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl q Ar msqid
.Nm msqid
で指定した ID のメッセージキューを削除します。
.It Fl m Ar shmid
.Nm shmid
で指定した ID の共有メモリセグメントに対し、削除マークを付けます。
このマークが付けられた共有メモリは、最後のプロセスがデタッチした後、
解放されます。
.It Fl s Ar semid
.Nm semid
で指定した ID のセマフォセットを削除します。
.It Fl Q Ar msgkey
.Nm msgkey
で指定したキーに対応するメッセージキューを削除します。
.It Fl M Ar shmkey
.Nm shmkey
で指定したキーに対応する共有メモリセグメントに対し、削除マークをつけます。
このマークが付けられた共有メモリは、最後のプロセスがデタッチした後、
解放されます。
.It Fl S Ar semkey
.Nm semkey
で指定したキーに対応するセマフォセットを削除します。
.El
.Pp
System V IPC オブジェクトの ID とキーは、
.Xr ipcs 1
を使って知ることができます。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr ipcs 1
