.\" Copyright (c) 1992,1993,1994 Hellmuth Michaelis
.\"
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by Hellmuth Michaelis
.\" 4. The name authors may not be used to endorse or promote products
.\"    derived from this software without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHORS ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" @(#)kcon.1, 3.20, Last Edit-Date: [Wed Jan 25 16:34:56 1995]
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.sbin/pcvt/kcon/kcon.1,v 1.4.2.1 2000/03/06 11:36:44 sheldonh Exp %
.\" jpman %Id: kcon.1,v 1.3 1997/07/22 17:43:18 horikawa Stab %
.\"
.Dd January 25, 1995
.Dt KCON 1
.Sh 名称
.Nm kcon
.Nd キーボードのコントロールと再割り当て
.Sh 書式
.Nm kcon
.Op Fl d Ar delay
.Op Fl l 
.Op Fl m Ar map
.Op Fl o
.Op Fl p
.Op Fl R
.Op Fl r Ar rate
.Op Fl s
.Op Fl t Ns Ar +/-
.Op Fl x
.Sh 解説
.Nm kcon
は、 'pcvt' ビデオドライバのためにキーボード設定の全ての側面を
制御するために使われます。
.Pp
利用可能なオプションは以下の通りです。
.Bl -tag -width flag
.It Fl d Ar delay
最後のキーを押してから、キーボードがリピートするまでの
ディレイ時間を指定します。指定できる値は、0 から 3 で、
それぞれ 250, 500, 750, 1000 ミリ秒のディレイ時間をあらわします。
.It Fl l
現在のドライバに利用されているキーボードマップを表示します。
.It Fl m Ar map
キーボード能力データベース
.Nm keycap
中で探されるマップエントリを指定します。
データベース中のエントリを探索し、見付かればマップが読み込まれ、
直ちにこのドライバで使われます。
.It Fl o
現在のマップリスト中の、ディスプレイ制御コードを 8 進数に切替えます。
.Fl l
オプションと一緒に使われます。
.It Fl p
リストの時に '純粋な (pure)' 出力を使います。
エスケープ文字は 8 進もしくは 16 進で表示され、 'ESC' とは
表示されません。
.Fl l
オプションと一緒に使われます。
.It Fl r Ar rate
文字のリピートレートを指定します。有効な値は 0 から 31 で、それぞれ
30 文字/秒から 2 文字/秒をあらわします。
.It Fl R
キーボードをリセットします。
.It Fl s
現在のリピートレートとディレイ値を表示します。
.It Fl t Ar +/-
キーリピートオプションを有効とする (
.Ar +
) か、無効とする (
.Ar -
) かを指定します。
.It Fl x
現在のマップの表示で、ディスプレイ制御コードを 16 進での表示に切替えます。
.Fl l
オプションと一緒に使われます。これはデフォルトの振舞いです。
.Sh 関連ファイル
.Bl -tag -width /usr/share/misc/keycap.pcvt -compact
.It Pa /usr/share/misc/keycap.pcvt
インストール時に他のものを選んでいなければ、
これがキーボード能力のデータベースファイルです
.It Pa /dev/console
キーボードの raw デバイス
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr keycap 3 ,
.Xr keycap 5
.Sh バグ
.Nm kcon
は、keycap データベース中にいくつかの矛盾を見付けます。
エラーの場合、
.Nm kcon
はエラーメッセージを表示して、終了します。この場合、キーボードは
未定義状態になるかもしれません。この状態を回復するためには、
.Nm kcon -m default
を実行してください。
.Sh 使用例
コマンド
.Dq Li kcon -m gb
は、英国のキーボードの振舞いに切替えるために 'gb' エントリを keycap 
ファイルからキーボードへ読み込みます。

コマンド
.Dq Li kcon -r 0 -d 0
は、キーが 250 ミリ秒押し続けられた後で、キーボードの文字を出すレート
を 30 文字/秒に設定します。
