.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)kdump.1	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/6/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/kdump/kdump.1,v 1.10 2003/12/08 22:47:59 peter Exp %
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd June 6, 1993
.Dt KDUMP 1
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm kdump
.Nd カーネルのトレースデータを表示する
.Sh 書式
.Nm
.Op Fl dEnlRT
.Op Fl f Ar trfile
.Op Fl m Ar maxdata
.Op Fl p Ar pid
.Op Fl t Op cnisuw
.Sh 解説
.Nm
は、
.Xr ktrace 1
が作成したカーネルトレースファイルを
可読形式で表示します。デフォルトでは、カレントディレクトリにある
.Pa ktrace.out
ファイルを変換して表示します。
.Pp
オプションとしては、以下のものがあります:
.Bl -tag -width Fl
.It Fl d
すべての数値を 10 進数で表示します。
.It Fl E
経過した時間を表示します (トレース開始からの時間)。
.It Fl f Ar trfile
.Pa ktrace.out
のかわりに、指定したファイルを変換して表示します。
.It Fl l
トレースファイルを何度も読みます。いったん EOF に達すると、
新たなデータが書かれるまで待ちます。
.It Fl m Ar maxdata
.Tn I/O
をデコードする際に最高
.Ar maxdata
バイトまで表示します。
.It Fl n
各動作専用に用意されている変換を行わないようにします。通常
.Nm
は多くのシステムコールを、より読みやすい形にデコードします。たとえば、
.Xr ioctl 2
の値はマクロ名に置き換えられたり、
.Va errno
の値は
.Xr strerror 3
を利用して文字列に置き換えられたりします。この動作をやめて一貫したフォー
マットで出力することで、この出力をさらに処理して分析を行うことが容易
になります。
.It Fl p Ar pid
プロセス
.Ar pid
に対応するトレースイベントのみを表示します。
同一のトレースファイルの複数プロセスの記録があるときに、有用かもしれません。
.It Fl R
時間の表示に、前のエントリからの相対時間を使います。
.It Fl T
時間の表示に、各エントリの絶対時間を利用します。
.It Fl t Ar cnisuw
.Xr ktrace 1
の
.Fl t
オプションを参照してください。
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr ktrace 1
.Sh 歴史
.Nm
コマンドは
.Bx 4.4
から登場しました。
