.\" Copyright (c) 2004 Marcel Moolenaar
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING,
.\" BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
.\" LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED
.\" AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,
.\" OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" %FreeBSD: src/gnu/usr.bin/gdb/kgdb/kgdb.1,v 1.2.2.3 2005/03/14 20:49:04 marcel Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd March 2, 2005
.Os
.Dt KGDB 1
.Sh 名称
.Nm kgdb
.Nd "カーネルデバッガ"
.Sh 書式
.Nm
.Op Fl a | Fl f | Fl fullname
.Op Fl q | Fl quiet
.Op Fl v
.Op Fl d Ar crashdir
.Op Fl c Ar core | Fl n Ar dumpnr | Fl r Ar device
.Op Ar kernel Op Ar core
.Sh 解説
.Nm
ユーティリティは、カーネルコアファイルのデバッグが可能な
.Xr gdb 1
に基づくデバッガです。
.Pp
オプションは次の通りです:
.Bl -tag -width ".Fl d Ar crashdir"
.It Fl a
注釈 (annotation) レベルを増加します。
注釈レベルの 1 は
.Xr gdb 1
の歴史的な
.Fl fullname
オプションと同じ機能です。
Emacs で
.Nm
を実行するとき便利です。
また、
.Fl f
や
.Fl fullname
オプションもまた、後方互換性のためにサポートされています。
.It Fl q
デバッガを起動するとき、バナーの表示を止めます。
.Fl quiet
形式もまた、互換性のためにサポートされています。
.It Fl v
冗長性を増加させます。
.It Fl d Ar crashdir
カーネルコアダンプファイルの置かれる位置として、デフォルトの
.Pa /var/crash
の代わりに
.Ar crashdir
を使用します。
名前
.Pa vmcore.
にダンプ番号を追加した名前が、実際のダンプファイル名に付加されます。
.It Fl c Ar core
コアダンプファイルとして
.Ar core
を明示的に使用します。
.It Fl n Ar dumpnr
.Ar dumpnr
と番号付けられたカーネルコアダンプファイルをデバッグに使用します。
.It Fl r Ar device
.Ar device
を使用して
.Nm
をリモートデバックセッションに接続します。
.El
.Pp
.Fl c , n
と
.Fl r
オプションは互いに排他的です。
.Pp
オプションとして、カーネルシンボルファイルの名前と
コアダンプファイルの名前を、
位置依存の引数としてコマンド行で与えることができます。
カーネルシンボルファイル名が与えられなかった場合、
現在実行しているカーネルのシンボルファイルが使用されます。
オプションまたは最後のコマンド行引数のどちらでも
コアダンプファイルが指定されていなかった場合、
現在実行しているカーネルをデバッグできるように
.Pa /dev/mem
がオープンされます。
.\" 原文: currenlty は currently の誤り。(RELENG_6 では修正済み)
.Sh 関連ファイル
.Bl -tag -width ".Pa /var/crash"
.It Pa /dev/mem
コアダンプファイルが指定されていない場合に
オープンされるデフォルトメモリイメージ。
.It Pa /var/crash
カーネルコアダンプファイルが位置するデフォルトディレクトリ。
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr gdb 1
.Sh 歴史
.Nm
ユーティリティの現在の形式は
.Fx 5.3
ではじめて登場しました。
