.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)kill.1	8.2 (Berkeley) 4/28/95
.\" %FreeBSD: src/bin/kill/kill.1,v 1.8.2.1 1999/08/29 14:12:40 peter Exp %
.\" jpman %Id: kill.1,v 1.2 1997/04/18 07:37:46 mutoh Stab %
.\"
.Dd April 28, 1995
.Dt KILL 1
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm kill
.Nd プロセスを終了させる、もしくは、プロセスにシグナルを送る
.Sh 書式
.Nm kill
.Op Fl s signal_name
.Ar pid
\&...
.Nm kill
.Fl l
.Op Ar exit_status
.Nm kill
.Fl signal_name
.Ar pid
\&...
.Nm kill
.Fl signal_number
.Ar pid
\&...
.Sh 解説
.Nm
は、
.Ar pid
で指定されたプロセス番号のプロセスに対し
シグナルを送ります。
.Pp
他のユーザのプロセスにシグナルを送ることができるのは、スーパユーザ
だけです。
.Pp
オプションとしては以下のものがあります:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl s Ar signal_name
デフォルトの
.Dv TERM
シグナルのかわりに、
シンボルによるシグナル名で指定したシグナルを送ります。
.It Fl l Op Ar exit_status
オペランドを指定しない場合、シグナル名をリストします;
オペランドを指定する場合、
.Ar exit_status
に対応するシグナル名を表示します。
.It Fl signal_name
デフォルトの
.Dv TERM
シグナルのかわりに、
シンボルによるシグナル名で指定したシグナルを送ります。
.It Fl signal_number
負でない整数値を指定すると、
デフォルトの
.Dv TERM
シグナルのかわりに、その番号のシグナルを送ります。
.El
.Pp
以下のプロセス番号には特別な意味があります:
.Bl -tag -width Ds -compact
.It -1
スーパユーザの場合、全てのプロセスに対しシグナルを放送します;
そうでない場合、そのユーザの全てのプロセスに対しシグナルを放送します。
.El
.Pp
主なシグナル番号とシグナル名は次のとおりです:
.Bl -tag -width Ds -compact
.It 1
HUP (hang up)
.It 2
INT (interrupt)
.It 3
QUIT (quit)
.It 6
ABRT (abort)
.It 9
KILL (non-catchable, non-ignorable kill)
.It 14
ALRM (alarm clock)
.It 15
TERM (software termination signal)
.El
.Pp
.Nm
は
.Xr csh 1
では組み込みコマンドです;
組み込みコマンドではプロセス番号のかわりに ``%...'' の形でジョブ番号を
指定することができるので、プロセス番号はあまり使いません。
詳しくは
.Xr csh 1
を参照して下さい。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr csh 1 ,
.Xr killall 1 ,
.Xr ps 1 ,
.Xr kill 2 ,
.Xr sigaction 2
.Sh 規格
.Nm
の機能は
.St -p1003.2
互換であることが期待されています。
.Sh 歴史
.Nm
コマンドは
.At v6
から登場しました。
.Sh バグ
.Xr csh 1
ユーザのために
.Dq Li kill 0
の代替コマンドを用意するべきです。
