.\" Copyright (c) 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)lam.1	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/6/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/lam/lam.1,v 1.4 1999/08/28 01:02:37 peter Exp %
.\" jpman %Id: lam.1,v 1.3 1997/08/20 12:59:57 horikawa Stab %
.\"
.Dd June 6, 1993
.Dt LAM 1
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm lam
.Nd ファイルを並べて結合する
.Sh 書式
.Nm
.Op Fl f Ar min.max
.Op Fl s Ar sepstring
.Op Fl t Ar c 
.Ar file ...
.Nm lam
.Op Fl p Ar min.max
.Op Fl s Ar sepstring
.Op Fl t Ar c 
.Ar file ...
.Sh 解説
.Nm lam
は指定されたファイルを並べてコピーし、標準出力に出力します。
各入力ファイル
.Ar file
の
.Em n
行目は、出力の
.Em n
行目を構成する要素と見なされ、結合されます。
`\fB\-\fP' というファイル名は標準入力と見なされ、
繰り返し指定することもできます。
.Pp
通常、各オプションはその直後の
.Ar file
に対してのみ有効です。
オプション文字が大文字で指定されれば、
再び大文字になっていないオプションが現れるまで、
後続する全てのファイルに対して適用されます。
オプションは以下の通りです。
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl f Ar min.max
行の構成要素をフォーマット文字列
.Ar min.max
に従って出力します。ここで
.Ar min
は最小フィールド幅、
.Ar max
は最大フィールド幅です。
もし
.Ar min
がゼロで始まっていれば、
フィールド幅を満たすためにゼロが付加されます。
もし
.Ar min
が `\-' で始まっていれば、その要素はフィールド内で左詰めされます。
.It Fl p Ar min.max
.Fl f
と同様ですが、
このファイルが EOF に達したにもかかわらず他のファイルがまだ残っていれば、
このファイルのフィールドをパディングします。
.It Fl s Ar sepstring
次のファイルからの行要素を表示する前に
.Ar sepstring
を表示します。
このオプションは最終ファイルの後に指定することもできます。
.It Fl t Ar c
入力ファイルの行の終端文字として、改行文字に代えて、
.Ar c
を用います。
省略された各出力行には、通常、改行文字が追加されます。
.El
.Pp
複数ファイルを並べて表示する簡便な方法については
.Xr pr 1
を参照して下さい。
.Sh 使用例
次のコマンド
.Bd -literal
lam file1 file2 file3 file4
.Ed

は4つのファイルを各々行毎に結合します。
4つの異なるファイルの行をマージするには、以下のコマンドを用います。
.Bd -literal
lam file1 \-S "\\
.br
" file2 file3 file4
.Ed

1つのファイルの行を1行おきに結合するには、以下のコマンドを用います。
.Bd -literal
lam \- \- < file
.Ed

`@' で示された部分を置換して letter を作成するには、
以下のコマンドを用います。
.\" ↑この部分、やや意味不明。原文は以下の通り。
.\" a form letter with substitutions keyed by `@' can be done with
.Bd -literal
lam \-t @ letter changes
.Ed
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr join 1 ,
.Xr pr 1 ,
.Xr printf 3
