.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	From: @(#)lastcomm.1    8.1 (Berkeley) 6/6/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/lastcomm/lastcomm.1,v 1.7.2.1 2000/12/19 16:22:19 ru Exp %
.\" jpman %Id: lastcomm.1,v 1.2 1997/03/29 06:18:35 horikawa Stab %
.\"
.Dd September 18,  1996
.Dt LASTCOMM 1
.Os BSD 3
.Sh 名称
.Nm lastcomm
.Nd 過去に実行されたコマンドの情報を逆順に表示する
.Sh 書式
.Nm
.Op Fl EScesu
.Op Fl f Ar file
.Op Ar command ...\&
.Op Ar user ...\&
.Op Ar terminal ...\&
.Sh 解説
.Nm
は、以前に実行されたコマンドの情報を表示します。引数が
ないときは、現在のアカウント情報ファイルが存在している間に実行されたすべて
のコマンドの記録を表示します。
.Pp
以下のオプションを使用可能です:
.Bl -tag -width XXfXfileX -compact
.Pp
.It Fl E
プロセスが終了した時刻を表示します。
.It Fl S
プロセスが開始した時刻を表示します。
.It Fl c
プロセスが使用した CPU 時間を表示します。
.It Fl e
プロセスが経過した時間を表示します。
.It Fl s
プロセスが使用したシステム時間を表示します。
.It Fl u
プロセスが使用したユーザ時間を表示します。
.It Fl f  Ar file
デフォルトの
.Pa /var/account/acct
のかわりに
.Ar file
を読み
込みます。
.El
.Pp
オプションが指定されない場合には
.Fl cS
が仮定されます。
.Nm
が引数付きで呼ばれたときは、引数で与えられた
.Ar command , 
.Ar user , 
.Ar terminal
にマッチする情報を表示します。
たとえば:
.Pp
.Dl lastcomm a.out root ttyd0
.Pp
では、
.Pa a.out
というコマンド名か、
.Ar root
というユーザか、
.Ar ttyd0
というターミナルで実行されたコマンド全てのリストが出力されます。
.Pp
表示される情報は、次のようなものです。
.Pp
.Bl -bullet -offset indent -compact
.It
ユーザが実行したプロセスの名前
.It
システムのアカウント機能によってつけられるフラグ
.It
コマンドを実行したユーザ名
.It
コマンドを実行した端末名
.It
プロセスが使用した CPU
.Pq Fl c
または実
.Pq Fl e
またはシステム
.Pq Fl s
またはユーザ
.Pq Fl u
時間の合計 (秒)
.It
プロセスが開始
.Pq Fl S
または終了
.Pq Fl E
した時刻
.El
.Pp
フラグには次のようなものがあります:
``S''
コマンドはスーパユーザによって実行されました。
``F''
コマンドが
.Xr fork 2
を行いましたが、その後、
.Xr exec 3
を行っていません。
.\" ``C''
.\" コマンドがPDP-11互換モードで実行されました (これはVAXでのみ有効です)。
``D''
コマンドが
.Pa core
ファイルを生成して終了しました。
``X''
コマンドがシグナルで終了しました。
.Pp
.Sh 関連ファイル
.Bl -tag -width /var/account/acct -compact
.It Pa /var/account/acct
デフォルトのアカウント情報ファイル
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr last 1 ,
.Xr sigvec 2 ,
.Xr acct 5 ,
.Xr core 5
.Sh 歴史
.Nm
コマンドは
.Bx 3.0
から登場しました。
