.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)leave.1	8.3 (Berkeley) 4/28/95
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/leave/leave.1,v 1.4.2.2 2001/03/06 12:52:45 ru Exp %
.\" jpman %Id: leave.1,v 1.4 1997/07/26 21:41:57 horikawa Stab %
.\"
.Dd April 28, 1995
.Dt LEAVE 1
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm leave
.Nd 何時離席すべきかを知らせる
.Sh 書式
.Nm
.Op Oo Cm \&+ Oc Ns Ar hhmm
.Sh 解説
.Nm leave
は指定した時刻が来るまで待ち、出発すべきことを思い出させます。
指定した時刻の 5 分前と 1 分前、その時間にお知らせが届き、
その後は、 1 分毎にお知らせが届きます。
あなたがログオフした場合には、
.Nm
は次のメッセージを出す前に終了します。
.Pp
次のオプションを利用可能です:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Ar hhmm
.Ar hhmm
形式での時刻の指定です。
.Ar hh
は (12 時間形式もしくは 24 時間形式での) 時間の指定で、
.Ar mm
は分の指定です。
全ての時刻は 12 時間形式に変換され、次の 12 時間以内が仮定されます。
.It Cm \&+
もし、時刻が
.Ql Cm \&+ ,
の形式で指定された場合、現在から指定された時間と分が経過した時に
お知らせが届きます。
.El
.Pp
引数が与えられなかった時は、
.Nm
は "When do you have to leave?" と尋ねます。
改行の入力は、
.Nm
を終了し、それ以外の場合は時刻が入力されたものと仮定します。
この形式は、
.Pa .login
や
.Pa .profile
に記述しておくのに適しています。
.Pp
.Nm leave
は、割り込み・終了・停止を無視します。
終了したい場合は、ログオフするか、
.Ql kill \-KILL
をプロセスに送らねばなりません。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr calendar 1
.Sh 歴史
.Nm
コマンドは
.Bx 3.0 
から導入されました。
