.ig \"-*- nroff -*-
Copyright (C) 1989-1995 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of
this manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice
are preserved on all copies.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
permission notice identical to this one.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this
manual into another language, under the above conditions for modified
versions, except that this permission notice may be included in
translations approved by the Free Software Foundation instead of in
the original English.
..
.ds g \" empty
.ds G \" empty
.\" Like TP, but if specified indent is more than half
.\" the current line-length - indent, use the default indent.
.de Tp
.ie \\n(.$=0:((0\\$1)*2u>(\\n(.lu-\\n(.iu)) .TP
.el .TP "\\$1"
..
.\" jpman %Id: lkbib.1,v 1.2 1997/05/13 16:17:15 horikawa Stab %
.TH LKBIB 1 "7 September 1996" "Groff Version 1.15"
.SH 名称
lkbib \- 文献目録データベースを検索する
.SH 書式
.B lkbib
[
.B \-v
]
[
.BI \-i fields
]
[
.BI \-p filename
]
[
.BI \-t n
]
.IR key \|.\|.\|.
.SH 解説
.B lkbib は、
.IR key \|.\|.\|.
で指定されたキーを用いて文献目録データベースを検索し、
参考文献の形式で標準出力に出力します。
.B lkbib
はまず
.B -p
オプションで指定された
すべてのデータベースを検索し、それからデフォルトのデータベースを検索します。
デフォルトのデータベースには、環境変数
.SB REFER
が設定されていればそれが、設定されていなければ
.B /usr/share/dict/papers/Ind
が用いられます。指定したデータベースファイル名
.I filename
に対応したインデックスファイル
.IB filename .i
(
.BR indxbib (1)
により作成される ) が存在すれば、それが検索されます。インデックスは、
複数のデータベースを網羅している可能性があります。
.SH オプション
.TP
.B \-v
バージョン番号を表示します。
.TP
.BI \-p filename
.I filename
を検索します。複数の
.B \-p
オプションの指定が可能です。
.TP
.BI \-i string
インデックスを持たないファイルを検索する場合、
.I string
に含まれる名前のフィールドの内容を無視します。
.TP
.BI \-t n
キーの先頭
.I n
文字が指定されればよいものとして扱います。
.I n
の初期値は 6 です。
.SH 環境変数
.TP \w'\fBREFER'u+2n
.SB REFER
デフォルトデータベース
.SH 関連ファイル
.Tp \w'\fB/usr/share/dict/papers/Ind'u+2n
.B /usr/share/dict/papers/Ind
環境変数
.SB REFER
が設定されていない場合のデフォルトのデータベース名。
.IB filename .i
インデックスファイル。
.SH 関連項目
.BR refer (1),
.BR lookbib (1),
.BR indxbib (1)
