.\" Copyright (c) 1992, 1995 Hellmuth Michaelis
.\"
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by Hellmuth Michaelis
.\" 4. The name authors may not be used to endorse or promote products
.\"    derived from this software without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHORS ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" @(#)loadfont.1, 3.20, Last Edit-Date: [Tue Apr  4 13:06:00 1995]
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.sbin/pcvt/loadfont/loadfont.1,v 1.9.2.2 2000/12/14 14:10:40 ru Exp %
.\" jpman %Id: loadfont.1,v 1.2 1997/03/29 06:19:33 horikawa Stab %
.\"
.Dd April 4, 1995
.Dt LOADFONT 1
.Os FreeBSD
.Sh 名称
.Nm loadfont
.Nd 
EGA 又は VGA ボードにフォントをロードする('pcvt' ビデオドライバ用)
.Sh 書式
.Nm
.Op Fl c Ar charsetno
.Op Fl d Ar devicefile
.Op Fl f Ar fontfilename
.Op Fl i
.Sh 解説
.Nm
ユーティリティは、
EGA 及び VGA ボード上の pcvt VT220 ドライバが
正しく動作するために必要なフォントを、
これらのボード上にロードします。
.Pp
オプションは以下の通りです。
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl c
フォントのロード先スロットを指定します。
フォントのダウンロード用に、EGA ボードは 4つ、VGA ボードは 8つのスロットを
持っています。
.It Fl d
用いるデバイスファイルを指定します。
.It Fl f
ダウンロードするフォントを格納しているファイルを指定します。
.It Fl i
現在、どのスロットにどういうタイプのフォントがロードされているかを
表示します。
これはコマンドラインオプションが全く指定されていない場合の
デフォルト動作でもあります。
.El
.Pp
このユーティリティは EGA 及び VGA ボードに対してのみ利用可能です。
MDA, HCG 及び CGA ボードは文字セットをダウンロードする機能を持っていません。
.Sh 関連ファイル
配布される pcvt パッケージには以下のフォントファイルが付属しています。
.Bd -literal
/usr/share/misc/pcvtfonts/vt220l.808:	8x8  IBM II フォント
/usr/share/misc/pcvtfonts/vt220h.808:	8x8  拡張フォント
/usr/share/misc/pcvtfonts/vt220l.810:	8x10 IBM II フォント
/usr/share/misc/pcvtfonts/vt220h.810:	8x10 拡張フォント
/usr/share/misc/pcvtfonts/vt220l.814:	8x14 IBM II フォント
/usr/share/misc/pcvtfonts/vt220h.814:	8x14 拡張フォント
/usr/share/misc/pcvtfonts/vt220l.816:	8x16 IBM II フォント
/usr/share/misc/pcvtfonts/vt220h.816:	8x16 拡張フォント
.Ed
.Sh 使用例
次のコマンドライン
.Dq Li loadfont -c0 -f/usr/share/misc/pcvtfonts/vt220l.816
は標準 IBM 文字セット II を含む 8x16 フォントを VGA あるいは EGA ボードの
スロット 0 にロードします。
.Sh バグ
既知のバグはありません。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr cursor 1 ,
.Xr scon 1 ,
.Xr pcvt 4 ,
.Xr ispcvt 8
.Sh 日本語訳
酒井 淳嗣(sakai@csl.cl.nec.co.jp): FreeBSD 向けに翻訳
