.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2003 Alexey Zelkin <phantom@FreeBSD.org>
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/locale/locale.1,v 1.5 2004/05/19 10:45:40 ru Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd June 20, 2003
.Dt LOCALE 1
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm locale
.Nd ロケール固有情報の取得
.Sh 書式
.Nm
.Op Fl a | m
.Nm
.Op Fl ck
.Op Ar keyword ...
.Sh 解説
.Nm
ユーティリティは、ほとんど全部のロケール固有情報を標準出力に
取り出します。
.Pp
.Nm
を引数なしで呼び出した場合、環境設定と内部状態に従い、
現在のロケール環境の要約を出力します。
.Pp
.Nm
を引数
.Ar keyword
付き、オプションなしで呼び出した場合、現在のロケール設定を用いて、
指定した
.Em keyword
すべての値を出力します。
.Pp
次のオプションが利用可能です。
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl a
利用可能なロケールすべての名前を表示します。
ロケールを検索する際には、
.Nm
は、システムデフォルトのロケールディレクトリの代わりに環境変数
.Ev PATH_LOCALE
を使います。
.It Fl m
利用可能な charmap すべての名前を表示します。
.It Fl k
引数で選択したキーワードすべての名前と値を表示します。
.It Fl c
引数で選択したキーワードすべてのカテゴリ名を表示します。
.El
.Sh 実装の詳細
特別な
.Pf ( Fx
固有の) キーワード
.Cm list
を使用して、利用可能なキーワードすべてに対する、
人間にも読めるリストを取得することができます。
.Sh 診断
.Ex -std
.Sh バグ
.Fx
は
.Em charmap Ns s
を
.Tn POSIX
の意味でサポートしないので、
.Nm
は
利用可能なロケールすべての CODESET のリストを作り、
.Fl m
オプションをエミュレートしています。
