.\" Copyright (c) 1987, 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)lock.1	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/6/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/lock/lock.1,v 1.11 2004/07/02 22:22:27 ru Exp %
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd July 10, 2002
.Dt LOCK 1
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm lock
.Nd 端末を予約する
.Sh 書式
.Nm
.Op Fl npv
.Op Fl t Ar timeout
.Sh 解説
.Nm
ユーティリティは、
ユーザにパスワードを要求し、確認のためにもう一度パスワードを
聞きます。以降そのパスワードがもう一度入力されるまで、
このプログラムはその端末を占有して利用できない状態にします。
このプログラムを終了するには、その他に二つの方法があります:
ひとつは決められた時間まで待ってタイムアウトさせる方法、
もうひとつは権限を持つユーザがそのプロセスを kill するという方法です。
.Pp
オプションは以下のものがあります:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl n
タイムアウト値を使用しません。端末を永遠にロックします。
.It Fl p
設定時にパスワードが要求されず、代りにユーザの現行のパスワードが使われます。
.It Fl t Ar timeout
タイムリミットを
.Ar timeout
分に変更します (デフォルトは 15 分)。
.It Fl v
この端末がロックされている間、仮想端末間の切り替えを無効にします。
本オプションは
.Xr vidcontrol 1
の
.Fl S
オプションと同様の方法で実装されており、同様の制限があります。
対象の端末が
.Xr syscons 4
仮想端末である場合のみ使用可能です。
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr vidcontrol 1 ,
.Xr syscons 4
.Sh 歴史
.Nm
コマンドは
.Bx 3.0
から登場しました。
