.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)logger.1	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/6/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/logger/logger.1,v 1.4.2.3 2001/02/18 16:28:13 ume Exp %
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd June 6, 1993
.Dt LOGGER 1
.Os BSD 4.3
.Sh 名称
.Nm logger
.Nd システムのログに記録を残す
.Sh 書式
.Nm
.Op Fl 46Ais
.Op Fl f Ar file
.Op Fl h Ar host
.Op Fl p Ar pri
.Op Fl t Ar tag
.Op Ar message ...
.Sh 解説
.Nm logger
は、
.Xr syslog 3
システムログ記録モジュールとのシェルコマンドインタフェースを提供します。
.Pp
次のオプションを使用可能です:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl 4
.Nm
が IPv4 アドレスのみを使用するよう、強制します。
.It Fl 6
が IPv6 アドレスのみを使用するよう、強制します。
.It Fl A
ホストが複数の A または AAAA レコードを持っている場合でも、
.Nm
はメッセージを単一のアドレスにのみ送信しようとします。
本オプションが指定されると、
.Nm
はメッセージをすべてのアドレスに送信しようとします。
.It Fl i
logger プロセスのプロセス ID を各行に記録します。
.It Fl s
システムのログと同様に、標準エラー出力にログを出力します。
.It Fl f Ar file
指定したファイルの内容をログとして記録します。
.It Fl h Ar host 
ローカルでログする代わりに、リモートシステム
.Ar host
へメッセージを送ります。
.It Fl p Ar pri
指定した優先順位でメッセージを入力します。優先順位は、
数字で指定するか、``ファシリティ.レベル'' の組で指定されます。
たとえば、``\-p local3.info'' は
.Ar local3
ファシリティに、情報(
.Ar info
)レベルでメッセージを記録します。デフォルトは、``user.notice'' です。
.It Fl t Ar tag
各行に指定した
.Ar tag
を埋め込みます。
.It Ar message
この
.Ar message
をログとして記録します。これが指定されておらず、
.Fl f
も指定されていなければ、標準入力をログとして記録します。
.El
.Sh 診断
.Nm
は成功した場合は 0 を、エラーが起きた場合は 0 より大きな値を返します。
.Sh 使用例
.Bd -literal -offset indent -compact
logger System rebooted

logger \-p local0.notice \-t HOSTIDM \-f /dev/idmc
.Ed
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr syslog 3 ,
.Xr syslogd 8
.Sh 規格
.Nm
は
.St -p1003.2
準拠です。
