.\" -*- nroff -*-
.ig \"-*- nroff -*-
Copyright (C) 1989-2000 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of
this manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice
are preserved on all copies.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
permission notice identical to this one.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this
manual into another language, under the above conditions for modified
versions, except that this permission notice may be included in
translations approved by the Free Software Foundation instead of in
the original English.
..
.\" $FreeBSD:$
.TH LOOKBIB 1 "26 April 2001" "Groff Version 1.17"
.SH 名称
lookbib \- 文献目録データベースを検索する
.SH 書式
.B lookbib
[
.B \-v
]
[
.BI \-i string
]
[
.BI \-t n
]
.IR filename \|.\|.\|.
.PP
コマンドラインオプションとパラメータの間に、空白を置くことが可能です。
.SH 解説
.B lookbib
は、(標準入力が端末であれば)標準エラー出力にプロンプトを表示して
キーワードの集合を標準入力から読み込み、
.IR filename \|.\|.\|.
で指定されたデータベースからそれらのキーワードを含む参照文を検索して、
発見した結果を標準出力に出力するという一連の動作を、
入力がなくなるまで繰り返します。検索するそれぞれの
.I filename
に対して、もし 
.IB filename .i
という名前で
.BR indxbib (1)
が作成したインデックスがあれば、
.I filename
のかわりにそのインデックスを検索します。インデックスは、
複数のデータベースを網羅している可能性があります。
.SH オプション
.TP
.B \-v
バージョン番号を表示します。
.TP
.BI \-i string
インデックスを持たないファイルを検索する場合、
.I string
に含まれる名前のフィールドの内容を無視します。
.TP
.BI \-t n
キーの先頭
.I n
文字が指定されればよいものとして扱います。
.I n
の初期値は 6 です。
.SH 関連ファイル
.TP \w'\fIfilename\fB.i'u+2n
.IB filename .i
インデックスファイル
.SH 関連項目
.BR refer (1),
.BR lkbib (1),
.BR indxbib (1)
