.\"	%NetBSD: look.1,v 1.3 1994/12/23 01:10:59 jtc Exp %
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/look/look.1,v 1.6.2.1 2001/03/06 12:52:46 ru Exp %
.\"
.\"     @(#)look.1	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/14/93
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd June 14, 1993
.Dt LOOK 1
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm look
.Nd 指定した文字列で始まる行を表示する
.Sh 書式
.Nm
.Op Fl df
.Op Fl t Ar termchar
.Ar string
.Op Ar
.Sh 解説
.Nm
は、
.Ar file
の中の各行のうち、
.Ar string
で指定された文字列で始まっている行を表示します。
.Nm
はバイナリサーチを使っているため、
.Ar file
で指定するファイルはソートされていなければいけません。
.Pp
.Ar file
が指定されなかった場合は
.Pa /usr/share/dict/words
が使用され、
.Fl d
と
.Fl f
オプションが暗黙に指定されます。
.Pp
オプションとしては以下のものがあります:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl d
辞書で使用されているアルファベットと数字だけを比較対象とします。
.It Fl f
アルファベットの大文字、小文字を区別しません。
.It Fl t
文字列の最後の文字を指定する。すなわち、
.Ar string
の先頭から
.Ar termchar
までの文字だけで比較をします。
.El
.Sh 戻り値
指定の文字列で始まる行が見つかった場合は 0 を、見つか
らなかった場合は 1 を、エラーが起きた場合は 2 以上の値を返します。
.Sh 関連ファイル
.Bl -tag -width /usr/share/dict/words -compact
.It Pa /usr/share/dict/words
デフォルトで使用される辞書ファイル
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr grep 1 ,
.Xr sort 1
.Sh 互換性
もともとのマニュアルでは，
.Fl d
オプションが指定されている時には、タブと空白は比較対象であると
述べられていました。
これは間違っていますし、現在のマニュアルでは歴史的な実装と
一致しています。
.Sh 歴史
.Nm
は
.At v7 
から登場しました。
