.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1995 Joerg Wunsch
.\"
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This program is free software.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by Joerg Wunsch
.\" 4. The name of the developer may not be used to endorse or promote
.\"    products derived from this software without specific prior written
.\"    permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE DEVELOPERS ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE DEVELOPERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.sbin/lpr/lp/lp.1,v 1.18 2004/07/02 23:12:46 ru Exp %
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd January 22, 1995
.Dt LP 1
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm lp
.Nd プリントスプーラのフロントエンド
.Sh 書式
.Nm
.Op Fl cs
.Op Fl o Ar option
.Op Fl d Ar printer
.Op Fl n Ar num
.Op Ar name ...
.Sh 解説
.Nm
ユーティリティは
.St -p1003.2
規格で必要とされるプリントスプーラのフロントエンドです。実際には
本ユーティリティは、適切な引数をつけて
.Xr lpr 1
を起動します。
.Pp
通常、
本ユーティリティ
は指定されたファイルをターゲットとするプリンタでプリントします。
.Pp
以下のオプションを使用可能です:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl c
入力ファイルにそれ以上アクセスする必要がなくなるまで
.Nm
は終了しません。
.Nm
が終了すると、アプリケーションはプリント出力処理に影響を与えることなく、
ファイルを安全に削除あるいは修正できます。
.It Fl d Ar dest
特定のプリンタを指定します。
コマンドラインに
.Fl d
オプションが指定されない場合、環境変数
.Ev LPDEST
あるいは
.Ev PRINTER
の値が
(この順で)
用いられます。
.It Fl n Ar num
指定された各ファイルを
.Ar num
部ずつプリント出力します。
.It Fl o Ar option
プリンタ固有のオプションです。
SVR との互換性のためだけに提供されているオプションであり、
サポートされていません。
.It Fl s
黙って動作します。
.St -susv2
との互換性のためだけに提供されているオプションであり、
サポートされていません。
.El
.Sh 環境変数
上で述べたように、環境変数
.Ev LPDEST
および
.Ev PRINTER
がターゲットとするプリンタを選択するのに用いられます。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr lpr 1
.Sh 規格
.Nm
コマンドは
.St -p1003.2
規格を満たすと考えられます。
.Sh 作者
この
.Nm
コマンドの実装は
.An J\(:org Wunsch
によって作成されました。
.Sh バグ
.St -p1003.2
規格ではテキスト以外のファイルのプリント手段が提供されていません。
プリントするファイルは、行の長さが妥当で文字も印字可能文字に限定されている
テキストファイルであることが求められています。
