.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)lprm.1	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/6/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.sbin/lpr/lprm/lprm.1,v 1.5.2.2 2000/12/27 16:23:16 ru Exp %
.\" jpman %Id: lprm.1,v 1.3 1997/08/15 06:33:28 horikawa Stab %
.\"
.Dd June 6, 1993
.Dt LPRM 1
.Os BSD 4.2
.Sh 名称
.Nm lprm
.Nd 印刷ジョブをキューから削除する
.Sh 書式
.Nm
.Op Fl P Ns Ar printer
.Op Fl
.Op job # ...\&
.Op Ar user ...\&
.Sh 解説
.Nm
は 1 つのジョブ、もしくは複数のジョブをプリンタの
スプールキューから削除します。スプールディレクトリはユーザから保護され
ているので、ジョブの削除は 
.Nm
を利用するのが唯一の手段です。
ジョブの所有者は、ユーザのログイン名と
.Xr lpr 1
を実行した計算機のホスト名で決定されます。
.Pp
オプションとしては以下のものがあります:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl P Ns Ar printer
.Ar printer
を扱うキューを指定します (指定しない場合はデフォルトのプリンタを使います)。
.It Fl
もし単一の `-' が与えられた場合、
.Nm
はユーザのすべてのジョブを削除します。
もしスーパユーザがこのオプションを使った場合、スプール
キューは完全に空になります。
.It Ar user
.Nm
は、 
.Ar user
の所有するすべてのジョブを削除しようと
試みます。この
.Nm
の呼び出し方は、スーパユーザだけに有用です。
.It Ar job\ \&#
ユーザは、ジョブ番号を指定することで個々のジョブをキューから
削除することができます。この番号は
.Xr lpq 1
プログラムから得ることができます。たとえば、以下のようになります。
.Pp
.Bd -literal -offset indent
\&% lpq \-l

1st:ken				[job #013ucbarpa]
	(standard input)	100 bytes
% lprm 13
.Ed
.El
.Pp
もし、どのオプションも与えられなかったときは、 
.Nm
を実行したユーザが持つアクティブなジョブを削除します。
.Pp
.Nm
は削除するファイルの名前をアナウンスしますが、もしキュー内
に削除するジョブがないときには何もアナウンスしません。
.Pp
.Nm
は、スプールのファイルを削除する前に、もし必要であればアクティブな
デーモンを殺します。デーモンを殺した場合、ファイルを削除したあとで
新しいデーモンを自動的に再スタートさせます。
.Sh 環境変数
もし、以下の環境変数が存在したならば、
.Nm
は利用します。
.Bl -tag -width PRINTER
.It Ev PRINTER
もし環境変数
.Ev PRINTER
が存在し、プリンタを
.Fl P
オプションで指定しなかった場合、デフォルトプリンタは
.Ev PRINTER
の値となります。
.El
.Sh 関連ファイル
.Bl -tag -width /var/spool/*/lock/ -compact
.It Pa /etc/printcap
プリンタの特徴を記述するファイル
.It Pa /var/spool/*
スプールディレクトリ
.It Pa /var/spool/*/lock
現在のデーモンのプロセス ID と、現在アクティブなジョブのジョブ番号を
得るためのロックファイル
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr lpq 1 ,
.Xr lpr 1 ,
.Xr lpd 8
.Sh 診断
もし、自分が所有者でないファイルを削除しようとした時は、
``Permission denied'' になります。
.Sh バグ
ロックファイルの更新時に、競争になる場合があるので、現在のアクティブ
なジョブを正しく認識しないかもしれません。
.Sh 歴史
.Nm
コマンドは
.Bx 3.0
から登場しました。
