.\" Copyright (c) 1985, 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)lptest.1	8.2 (Berkeley) 12/30/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.sbin/lpr/lptest/lptest.1,v 1.3 1999/08/28 01:16:56 peter Exp %
.\" jpman %Id: lptest.1,v 1.2 1997/05/04 08:00:51 horikawa Stab %
.\"
.Dd December 30, 1993
.Dt LPTEST 1
.Os BSD 4.3
.Sh 名称
.Nm lptest
.Nd ラインプリンタのテスト用のパターンを出力する
.Sh 書式
.Nm lptest
.Op Ar length
.Op Ar count
.Sh 解説
.Nm lptest
は、伝統的な ``リプルテスト'' (ripple test)
パターンを標準出力に書きます。
このパターンは 96 行におよび、表示可能な
.Tn ASCII
96 文字すべてを各位置に出力することになります。
もともとはプリンタのテストのために作られたものですが、
端末や端末ポートのデバッグ、ランダムなデータがすぐに必要な
場合などにも大変有効です。
.Pp
.Ar length
引数は、出力の 1 行の長さがデフォルトの 79 ではふさわしくない場合に
指定します。
.Pp
.Ar count
引数は、行数がデフォルトの 200 ではふさわしくない場合に指定します。
.Ar count
を指定したい場合は 
.Ar length
も指定しなければならない点に注意してください。
.Sh 歴史
.Nm lptest
コマンドは
.Bx 4.3
から登場しました。
