.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1997 Eric P. Allman
.\" Copyright (c) 1985, 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)mailq.1	8.5 (Berkeley) 2/1/97
.\" jpman %Id: mailq.1,v 1.2 1997/03/29 06:21:16 horikawa Stab %
.\"
.Dd February 1, 1997
.Dt MAILQ 1
.Os BSD 4
.Sh 名称
.Nm mailq
.Nd メールのキューを表示する
.Sh 書式
.Nm mailq
.Op Fl v
.Sh 解説
.Nm mailq
は、後で配送するためにキューに蓄えたメールを一覧表示します。
.Pp
各メッセージの 1 行目は、ホストがメッセージにつける内部の識別子、
メッセージのバイト数、キューに入れられた日付と時間、
メッセージの送り手を表示します。
2 行目は、このメールがキューに入れられる原因となったエラーを表示します。
このメッセージは、
キューのなかでメールが最初に処理されているときには表示されません。
そのあとの行には、メールの受け手が 1 行に 1 人ずつ表示されます。
.Pp
.Nm mailq
は、``sendmail -bp'' とまったく同じです。
.Pp
オプション:
.Bl -tag -width flag
.It Fl v
詳細な情報を表示します。
通常の表示に加え、メッセージの優先度と、
警告メッセージを送ったか否かを示す 1 文字の記号 (``+'' か空白)
を最初の行に追加します。
さらに、メールの受け手の ``制御ユーザ (controlling user)'' 情報を表示します;
これは、このメールによって実行されるプログラムの所有者および、
存在するのであれば、このコマンドが展開される元のエイリアス名です。
.El
.Pp
.Nm mailq
は成功した場合は0を、エラーが起きた場合は0より大きな
値を返します。
.Pp
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr sendmail 8
.Pp
.Sh 歴史
.Nm mailq
は
.Bx 4.0
から登場しました。
