.\" Copyright (c) 1997
.\"	Michael Smith
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/minigzip/minigzip.1,v 1.2.4.1 1999/08/29 15:30:56 peter Exp %
.\"
.Dd December 13, 1997
.Dt MINIGZIP 1
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm minigzip
.Nd 'gzip' 圧縮ツールの最小限度の実装
.Sh 書式
.Nm minigzip
.Op Fl d
.Op Ar file ...
.Sh 解説
.Nm 
は
.Xr gzip 1
ユーティリティの最小限度の実装です。
標準入出力を通してのストリーム圧縮・伸長と、
個々のファイルの圧縮・伸長を提供します。
.Pp
デフォルトの操作は圧縮で、伸長は
.Fl d
フラグをコマンドラインで与えることで選択されます。
.Pp
もしも
.Ar file
引数が与えられた場合、この操作は個々のファイルに別々に適用されます。
圧縮すると、オリジナルファイルを、
.Pa .gz
サフィックスをつけたファイルと置き換えます。
伸長は
.Pa .gz
サフィックスが存在すればそれを取り除きます。
.Pp
.Ar file
引数が与えられなかった場合、
.Nm
は標準入力から読み込み、操作の結果を標準出力に書き出します。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr gzip 1
.Sh 作者
.Nm 
は、
.An Jean-loup Gailly 
によって書かれました。
