.\" Copyright (c) 1999 Jeroen Ruigrok van der Werven
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/mk_cmds/mk_cmds.1,v 1.1.2.1 1999/12/12 03:04:11 chris Exp %
.\" jpman %Id: mk_cmds.1,v 1.3 1999/12/24 07:39:55 mitchy Stab %
.Dd November 14, 1999
.Dt MK_CMDS 1
.Os FreeBSD
.Sh 名称
.Nm mk_cmds
.Nd テーブルファイルからコマンドを生成する
.Sh 書式
.Nm mk_cmds
.Ar cmdtbl.ct
.Sh 解説
.Nm
ユーティリティはコマンドテーブルファイルを入力とし、
サブシステムライブラリ libss と組み合わせて使用することを意図した
C ソースファイルを出力します。
このソースファイルは自動的に
.Aq Pa ss/ss.h
をインクルードします。
.Pp
指定するテーブルファイルは次の書式です:
.Pp
command_table name_of_table
.Pp
keyword ss_command_name,
.Qq description_of_command ,
command_binding
.Op ,command_binding ;
.Pp
keyword ss_command_name,
.Qq description_of_command ,
command_name,
(dont_option
.Op ", dont_option"
);
.Pp
end;
.Pp
keyword は次のいずれか 1 つです:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width "unimplemented" -compact
.It request
リクエスト可能なコマンド
.It unimplemented
実装されていないコマンド
.El
.Pp
dont_option は次のいずれか 1 つです:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width "dont_summarize" -compact
.It dont_list
コマンドを列挙しません
.It dont_summarize
コマンドをコマンドサマリに列挙しません
.Sh 使用例
request ss_testfunction,
.Qq This is the explanation for testfunction ,
testfunction, tf;
.Pp
request ss_anothertest,
.Qq This is the explanation for anothertest ,
anothertest, (dont_list, dont_summarize);
.Pp
unimplemented ss_lasttest,
.Qq This is the explanation for lasttest ,
lasttest, lt;
.Sh 歴史
.Nm mk_cmds
ユーティリティは MIT Student Information Processing Board が記述し、
.Fx 2.0.5
以前に登場しました。
.Sh 作者
本マニュアルページは
.An Jeroen Ruigrok van der Werven
.Aq asmodai@wxs.nl
が書きました。
