.\" Copyright (c) 1989, 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)mkdir.1	8.2 (Berkeley) 1/25/94
.\" %FreeBSD: src/bin/mkdir/mkdir.1,v 1.7.2.2 1999/08/29 14:12:53 peter Exp %
.\"
.\" jpman %Id: mkdir.1,v 1.2 1997/03/29 06:22:04 horikawa Stab %
.Dd January 25, 1994
.Dt MKDIR 1
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm mkdir
.Nd ディレクトリの作成
.Sh 書式
.Nm mkdir
.Op Fl p
.Op Fl m Ar mode
.Ar directory_name  ...
.Sh 解説
.Nm
は、
オペランドで指定されたディレクトリを作成します。
作成する順番は指定された順番です。
作成されるディレクトリのパーミッションは、
.Li rwxrwxrwx (\&0777)
に
.Xr umask 2
の修正を加えたものです。
.Pp
オプションとしては以下のものがあります:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl m Ar mode
作成されるディレクトリのパーミッションを指定します。
.Ar mode
の書式は
.Xr chmod 1
コマンドと同じです。シンボリック形式で指定する場合、
.Dq +
および
.Dq -
は、最初のパーミッションが
.Dq a=rwx
であるものとして解釈されます。
.It Fl p
必要に応じて途中のディレクトリを作成します。
このオプションが指定されていない場合には、
.Ar directory_name
で指定するパスの途中のディレクトリは既に存在している必要があります。
途中に作成されるディレクトリのパーミッションは、
.Li rwxrwxrwx (\&0777)
に現在の umask の修正を加えたものに、
所有者に対する書き込みと検索パーミッションが加わった値となります。
.El
.Pp
ユーザは親ディレクトリに対する
書き込みパーミッションを持っている必要があります。
.Sh 診断
.Nm
ユーティリティは、
成功した場合は 0 を、エラーが起きた場合は 0 より大きな値を返します。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr rmdir 1
.Sh 規格
.Nm
ユーティリティは
.St -p1003.2
互換です。
.Sh 歴史
.Nm
コマンドは
.At v1
から登場しました。
