.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)mkfifo.1	8.2 (Berkeley) 1/5/94
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/mkfifo/mkfifo.1,v 1.6.2.1 2000/06/30 09:51:51 ps Exp %
.\" jpman %Id: mkfifo.1,v 1.3 1997/09/04 16:41:11 horikawa Stab %
.\"
.Dd January 5, 1994
.Dt MKFIFO 1
.Os BSD 4.4
.Sh 名称
.Nm mkfifo
.Nd FIFO パイプをつくる
.Sh 書式
.Nm
.Op Fl m Ar mode
.Ar fifo_name  ...
.Sh 解説
.Nm
コマンドは、指定された名前で、指定された順に
FIFO パイプをつくります。
.Pp
オプションは次の通りです:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl m
作成する FIFO のファイルパーミッションビットを指定したモードにし、
呼び出し元プロセスの
.Xr umask 2
を無視します。
モード引数は、
.Xr chmod 1
コマンドに指定可能な任意の書式を取ります。
シンボル形式のモードが指定された場合、オペランドシンボル
.Dq +
(プラス) と
.Dq -
(ハイフン) は、初期モード
.Dq a=rw
に対する相対として解釈されます。
.El
.Pp
.Fl m
オプションが指定されないと、
.Li \&0666
を呼び出し元プロセスの
.Xr umask 2
で修正したモードで FIFO を作成します。
.Nm
コマンドには、親ディレクトリに書き込みパーミッションが必要です。
.Sh 診断
.Nm
コマンドは、成功した場合は 0 を、
エラーが起きた場合は 0 より大きな値を返します。
.Sh 規格
.Nm
コマンドは、
.St -p1003.2
準拠であると考えられています。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr mkdir 1 ,
.Xr rm 1 ,
.Xr mkfifo 2 ,
.Xr mknod 2 ,
.Xr mknod 8
.Sh 歴史
.Nm
は
.Bx 4.4
から登場しました。
