.\" Copyright (c) 1996
.\"	Steve Passe <fsmp@FreeBSD.ORG>.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. The name of the developer may NOT be used to endorse or promote products
.\"    derived from this software without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.sbin/mptable/mptable.1,v 1.6 1999/10/30 16:05:26 phantom Exp %
.\"
.\" jpman %Id: mptable.1,v 1.3 1998/10/10 15:47:25 horikawa Stab %
.Dd April 28, 1997
.Dt MPTABLE 1
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm mptable
.Nd MP 設定表を表示する
.Sh 書式
.Nm mptable
.Op Fl dmesg
.Op Fl verbose
.Op Fl grope
.Op Fl help
.Sh 解説
.Nm
コマンドは Intel(tm) MP 規格に適合したマザーボード上の
MP 設定表を見つけて分析します。
このコマンドはカーネル設定オプションを決定するのと、
ブートしない SMP カーネルをデバッグするのとの両方に便利です。
単一プロセッサカーネルにおいても動作します。
.Pp
このコマンドは root として実行する必要があります。
.Pp
以下のオプションが存在します。
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl dmesg
dmesg ダンプを含みます。
.It Fl grope
場所を探しますが、必要ないはずであり、
最後にやむを得ず行なうにとどめるべきです。
.It Fl help
使い方を表示して終了します。
.It Fl verbose
余分な情報も表示します。
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr smp 4 ,
.Xr dmesg 8
.Sh 歴史
.Nm
コマンドは
.Fx 3.0
において初めて登場しました。
.Sh 作者
.An Steve Passe Aq fsmp@FreeBSD.org
