.\" Copyright (c) 2002 Tim J. Robbins.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/newgrp/newgrp.1,v 1.2 2002/05/30 13:57:35 ru Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd May 23, 2002
.Dt NEWGRP 1
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm newgrp
.Nd 新規グループへ変わる
.Sh 書式
.Nm
.Op Fl l
.Op Ar group
.Sh 解説
.Nm
ユーティリティは、修正した実および実効グループ ID での
新規シェル実行環境を作成します。
.Pp
オプションは次の通りです:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl l
完全なログインをシミュレートします。
環境および umask は、ユーザが実際に再ログインした場合に期待されるものと
同じに設定されます。
.El
.Pp
.Ar group
オペランドが存在した場合、
指定した実効および実グループ ID での新規シェルが開始されます。
指定したグループにユーザが属さない場合、パスワードの入力が促されます。
.Pp
そうではない場合、実・実効・補助グループ ID が、
現在のユーザのパスワードデータベースエントリから回復されます。
.Sh 診断
.Nm
ユーティリティは、グループ ID が成功裏に変更されたかにかかわらず、
新規シェルを開始しようとします。
.Pp
エラーが発生すると、シェルは開始できず、
.Nm
は >0 で終了します。
そうでなければ、
.Nm
の終了状態はシェルの終了状態です。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr csh 1 ,
.Xr groups 1 ,
.Xr login 1 ,
.Xr sh 1 ,
.Xr su 1 ,
.Xr umask 1 ,
.Xr group 5 ,
.Xr passwd 5 ,
.Xr environ 7
.Sh 規格
.Nm
ユーティリティは
.St -p1003.1-2001
に適合しています。
.Sh 歴史
.Nm
ユーティリティは
.At v6
に登場しました。
.Sh バグ
暗号化されたパスワードをユーザがグループデータベースから取得することを
止められませんので、グループパスワードは元々安全ではありません。
グループパスワードの使用はお勧めできません。
