.\" Copyright (c) 1989, 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     From: @(#)nfsstat.1   8.1 (Berkeley) 6/6/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/nfsstat/nfsstat.1,v 1.13 2004/07/02 22:22:29 ru Exp %
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd June 6, 1993
.Dt NFSSTAT 1
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm nfsstat
.Nd
.Tn NFS
に関する統計を表示する
.Sh 書式
.Nm
.Op Fl csW
.Op Fl M Ar core
.Op Fl N Ar system
.Op Fl w Ar wait
.Sh 解説
.Nm
コマンドは、
.Tn NFS
クライアントと
.Tn NFS
サーバの実行状況に関して、持っている
統計を表示します。
.Pp
オプションは次の通りです:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl c
クライアント側の情報のみを表示します。
.It Fl M  Ar core
名前のリストから値を取り出す際に、デフォルトの
.Pa /dev/kmem
のかわりに
.Ar core
を使います。
.It Fl N  Ar system
名前のリストを取り出す際に、デフォルトの
.Pa /boot/kernel/kernel
のかわりに
.Ar system
を使います。
.It Fl s
サーバ側の情報のみを表示します。
.It Fl W
定期的な短いサマリに、幅広書式を使用します。
.Fl c
または
.Fl s
と、遅延時間を組み合わせて指定したとき、本オプションは特に有用です。
.It Fl w  Ar wait
.Tn NFS
のクライアントとサーバに関する実行状況の簡単なサマリを、
.Ar wait
秒ごとに表示します。
.El
.Sh 関連ファイル
.Bl -tag -width /boot/kernel/kernel -compact
.It Pa /boot/kernel/kernel
デフォルトのカーネルの名前リスト
.It Pa /dev/kmem
デフォルトのメモリファイル
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr fstat 1 ,
.Xr netstat 1 ,
.Xr ps 1 ,
.Xr systat 1 ,
.Xr sysctl 3 ,
.Xr iostat 8 ,
.Xr pstat 8 ,
.Xr vmstat 8
.Sh 歴史
.Nm
コマンドは
.Bx 4.4
から登場しました。
