.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)nice.1	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/6/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/nice/nice.1,v 1.12 1999/09/14 11:46:03 sheldonh Exp %
.\"
.\" jpman %Id: nice.1,v 1.2 1997/05/04 08:01:38 horikawa Stab %
.\"
.Dd June 6, 1993
.Dt NICE 1
.Os BSD 4
.Sh 名称
.Nm nice
.Nd スケジュールの優先度を下げてコマンドを実行する
.Sh 書式
.Nm nice
.Op Fl Ns Ar number
.Ar command
.Op Ar arguments
.Sh 解説
.Nm
はスケジュールの優先度を低くして
.Ar command
を実行します (優先度を低くすると実行速度が遅くなると考えてください)。
もし
.Fl Ns Ar number
が指定されない場合、
.Nm
は値を 10 であるとします。
優先度は -20 から 20 までの値です。
デフォルトの優先度は 0 であり、優先度 20 がもっとも低いです。
.Nm
は、
.Ar command
の実行優先度として、
.Ar number
が
.Nm
の優先度に対して相対的に指定されたものとします。
現在のプロセスの優先度よりも高い優先度はスーパユーザのみ要求可能です。
負の数を指定する場合には
.Fl - Ns Ar number
とします。
.Pp
終了ステータスは
.Nm
が実行したコマンドの終了ステータスです。
.Pp
シェルによっては、本ユーティリティと似たまたは同じ、組み込みの
.Nm
コマンドを提供しているものがあります。
.Xr builtin 1
マニュアルページを参照してください。
.Sh 使用例
.Pp
$ nice -5 date
.Pp
シェルの優先度が 0 の時、コマンド
.Sq date 
を、優先度 5 にて実行します。
.Pp
# nice -16 nice --35 date
.Pp
シェルの優先度が 0 であり、スーパユーザの場合、コマンド
.Sq date 
を優先度 -19 にて実行します。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr builtin 1 ,
.Xr csh 1 ,
.Xr idprio 1 ,
.Xr rtprio 1 ,
.Xr getpriority 2 ,
.Xr setpriority 2 ,
.Xr renice 8
.Sh 歴史
.Nm
は
.At v6
で追加されました。
