.\" Copyright (c) 1989, 1990, 1993
.\"    The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"    @(#)nohup.1 8.1 (Berkeley) 6/6/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/nohup/nohup.1,v 1.12 2002/06/28 09:34:46 tjr Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd July 19, 2001
.Dt NOHUP 1
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm nohup
.Nd 回線切断の影響を受けないようにしてユーティリティを実行する
.Sh 書式
.Nm
.Op Fl Fl
.Ar utility
.Op Ar arguments
.Sh 解説
.Nm
は
.Dv SIGHUP
シグナルを無視するように設定し、指定されたコマンドを指定された
.Ar arguments
付で実行します。
標準出力が端末の時、コマンドの出力はカレントディレクトリのファイル
.Pa nohup.out
に追加書き込みされます。標準エラー出力が端末の時も、
標準出力と同様に処理されます。
.Pp
シェルによっては、本ユーティリティと似たまたは同じ、組み込みの
.Nm
コマンドを提供しているものがあります。
.Xr builtin 1
マニュアルページを参照してください。
.Sh 環境変数
.Nm
は以下の環境変数を参照します。
.Bl -tag -width flag
.It Ev HOME
カレントディレクトリにファイル
.Pa nohup.out
が作成できなかった場合、環境変数
.Ev HOME
で示されたディレクトリに作成します。
.It Ev PATH
名前に
.Ql /
が 1 個も含まれない場合、指定された
.Ar utility
を見付けるために使用されます。
.El
.Sh 診断
.Nm
ユーティリティは次のいずれかの値で終了します:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It 126
.Ar utility
は見付かりましたが、起動できませんでした。
.It 127
.Ar utility
が見付からなかったか、
.Nm
内でエラーとなりました。
.El
.Pp
その他の場合、
.Nm
の終了ステータスは
.Ar utility
の終了ステータスとなります。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr builtin 1 ,
.Xr csh 1 ,
.Xr signal 3
.Sh 規格
.Nm
は
.St -p1003.2
互換であるはずです。
.Sh バグ
2 個以上の
.Nm
のインスタンスが出力を同じファイルに追加書き込みすることができ、
これにより混ぜ合わさった出力が作られます。
