.ig
Copyright (C) 1989-2001 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of
this manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice
are preserved on all copies.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
permission notice identical to this one.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this
manual into another language, under the above conditions for modified
versions, except that this permission notice may be included in
translations approved by the Free Software Foundation instead of in
the original English.

	%FreeBSD: src/contrib/groff/src/roff/nroff/nroff.man,v 1.7.2.2 2001/08/06 17:02:06 ru Exp %

..
.\" $FreeBSD: doc/ja_JP.eucJP/man/man1/nroff.1,v 1.8 2001/05/14 01:07:26 horikawa Exp $
.TH NROFF 1 "26 April 2001" "Groff Version 1.17"
.SH 名称
nroff \- groff による nroff コマンドのエミュレート
.SH 書式
.nr a \n(.j
.ad l
.nr i \n(.i
.in +\w'\fBnroff 'u
.ti \niu
.B nroff
.de OP
.ie \\n(.$-1 .RI "[\ \fB\\$1\fP" "\\$2" "\ ]"
.el .RB "[\ " "\\$1" "\ ]"
..
.OP \-h
.OP \-i
.OP \-m name
.OP \-n num
.OP \-o list
.OP \-p
.OP \-r cn
.OP \-t
.OP \-S
.OP \-T name
.OP \-U
.OP \-v
.RI "[\ " file\|.\|.\|. "\ ]"
.br
.ad \na
.SH 解説
.B nroff
は、groff を用いて
.B nroff
をエミュレートするスクリプトです。
.B \-T
オプションには
.BR ascii ,
.BR latin1 ,
.BR koi8-r ,
.BR utf8 ,
.B cp1047
のみが有効です。
無効なものを指定するか
.BR \-T
オプションを指定しないと、
.B nroff
は現在のロケールを調べて、デフォルト出力デバイスを選択します。
まず、
.B locale
プログラムを試し、次に環境変数
.BR LC_ALL ,
.BR LC_CTYPE ,
.BR LANG
を試し、最終的に
.B LESSCHARSET
環境変数を見ます。
.PP
.B \-h
オプション
は
.B grotty
への
.B \-h
オプションと等価です
(すなわちタブを出力に使用します)。
.BR \-i ,
.BR \-n ,
.BR \-m ,
.BR \-o ,
.B \-r
オプションは
.BR troff (1)
に説明されている効果を持ちます。
.BR \-q ,
.B \-s
オプション (
.BR troff
には実装されていません) は無視され、エラーメッセージも表示されません。
オプション
.BR \-p
(pic),
.BR \-t
(tbl),
.B \-S
(より安全) と
.B \-U
(安全でない) は
.BR groff
に渡されます。
.B \-S
がデフォルトで渡されます。
.B \-v
バージョン番号を表示します。
.SH 環境変数
.TP
.SM
.B GROFF_BIN_PATH
コロン区切りのディレクトリリストで、PATH の前に、ここから
.B groff
実行形式を探します。
これが設定されない場合、`/usr/bin' が使用されます。
.SH 注
このシェルスクリプトは、基本的には
.BR man (1)
での使用を意図していますので、警告は抑制されます。
(ファイル tty-char.tmac 中の) nroff スタイルの文字定義もまた、
印字不可能なグリフをエミュレートするためにロードします。
.SH 関連項目
.BR groff (1),
.BR troff (1),
.BR grotty (1)
.
.\" Local Variables:
.\" mode: nroff
.\" End:
