.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1998 David E. O'Brien
.\"
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE DEVELOPERS ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE DEVELOPERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/objformat/objformat.1,v 1.3.2.2 2000/12/19 16:22:23 ru Exp %
.\"
.\" jpman %Id: objformat.1,v 1.3 1999/02/01 13:15:56 kuma Stab %
.\"
.Dd October 25, 1998
.Os
.Dt OBJFORMAT 1
.Sh 名称
.Nm objformat
.Nd デフォルトのバイナリ形式を報告し、その形式用プログラムを実行する
.Sh 書式
.Nm
.Nm prog
.Sh 解説
.Nm
として実行された時には、デフォルトのオブジェクトファイル形式を報告しま
す。オブジェクトファイル形式は、
.Ar aout
と
.Ar elf
の 2 種類です。
.Pp
他の名称で実行された時には、
.Nm prog
は
.Pa /usr/libexec/<objformat>/prog
と展開されて、起動されます。
.Sh 診断
引数の数が不適切であったり、
.Nm prog
を起動できなかった場合には、
.Nm
ユーティリティは終了コード 1 を返し終了します。
.Sh 環境変数
.Bl -tag -width OBJFORMAT_PATH
.It Ev OBJFORMAT
環境変数
.Ev OBJFORMAT
が設定されている場合には、デフォルトのオブジェクト形式に優先します。
.Ev OBJFORMAT
は
.Pa /etc/objformat
よりも優先されます。
.It Ev OBJFORMAT_PATH
環境変数
.Ev OBJFORMAT_PATH
が設定されている場合には、その値が
.Nm prog
へのパスのベースとして使われます。デフォルトでは、
.Pa /usr/libexec
です。
.El
.Sh 関連ファイル
.Bl -tag -width /etc/objformat -compact
.It Pa /etc/objformat
このファイルは、使用するオブジェクトファイル形式を
指定します。書式は、
.Ql OBJFORMAT=xxx
です。
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr file 1 ,
.Xr getobjformat 3
.\" .Sh STANDARDS
.Sh 歴史
.Nm
は
.Fx 3.0
から登場しました。
.Sh 作者
.An -nosplit
.Nm
は、
.An Peter Wemm Aq peter@netplex.com.au
によって書かれました。
このマニュアルページは、
.An David O'Brien Aq obrien@NUXI.com
によって書かれました。
.\" .Sh BUGS
