.\" Copyright (c) 1989, 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" Adam S. Moskowitz and the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)paste.1	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/6/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/paste/paste.1,v 1.4.2.2 2001/03/06 12:52:54 ru Exp %
.\" $FreeBSD: doc/ja_JP.eucJP/man/man1/paste.1,v 1.5 2001/05/14 01:07:26 horikawa Exp $
.\"
.Dd June 6, 1993
.Dt PASTE 1
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm paste
.Nd ファイルの対応する行または引き続く行を併合する
.Sh 書式
.Nm
.Op Fl s
.Op Fl d Ar list
.Ar
.Sh 解説
.Nm
ユーティリティは、与えられた入力ファイルの対応する行の結合を、
最後のファイル以外の改行文字を一つのタブ文字に置き換えながら行い、
その結果の行を標準出力に書き出します。
入力ファイルの一つが EOF (ファイルの終り) に達した場合、
他のファイルの終了までそのファイルは空行が有るかのように
扱われます。
.Pp
以下のようなオプションがあります。
.Bl -tag -width Fl
.It Fl d  Ar list 
デフォルトのタブの代わりに改行文字を置換するための文字として使います。
.Ar list
中の文字は巡回するように使われます。つまり、
.Ar list
の文字が終った時には最初の文字が再び使われます。
これは、(デフォルトの操作では) 最後の入力ファイルからの行まで、もしくは (
.Fl s
オプション使用時には) 各ファイルの最後の行が表示されるまで続きます。
最後の行を表示したところで、
.Nm
は、選択された文字の最初から操作を行います。
.Pp
以下の特殊文字を記述可能です。
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width flag -compact
.It Li \en
改行文字
.It Li \et
タブ文字
.It Li \e\e
バックスラッシュ文字
.It Li \e0
空文字列 (ヌル文字ではありません)
.El
.Pp
上記以外の文字は、バックスラッシュ付きの場合その文字自身を表現します。
.It Fl s
別個の入力ファイルの全行の結合を、コマンドラインに並んだ順に行います。
入力ファイル中の、最後の行以外の全ての行の改行文字は、
.Fl d
オプションが
指定されていない場合は、タブ文字で置き換えられます。
.El
.Pp
.Ql Fl
が、1 つ以上の入力ファイルに指定された場合、標準入力が使われます。
標準入力は、一度に一行読み込まれ、巡回的に
.Ql Fl 
の各実体として使われます。
.Sh 診断
.Nm
は、成功した場合 0 で終了します。
また、エラーが起こった場合は 0 より大きな値で終了します。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr cut 1
.Sh 規格
.Nm
ユーティリティは、
.St -p1003.2
互換であることが期待されています。
