.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2004 Erez Zadok
.\" Copyright (c) 1990 Jan-Simon Pendry
.\" Copyright (c) 1990 Imperial College of Science, Technology & Medicine
.\" Copyright (c) 1990 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" Jan-Simon Pendry at Imperial College, London.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgment:
.\"      This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"      California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
.\" $Id: pawd.1,v 1.8 2004-09-24 06:50:37 metal Exp $
.\" %FreeBSD: src/contrib/amd/amq/pawd.1,v 1.6 2004/07/06 13:16:44 mbr Exp %
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.\" WORD: automounter	オートマウンタ[pawd.1]
.\" WORD: current working directory	(現在の)作業ディレクトリ[pawd.1]
.\"
.Dd January 6, 1998
.Dt PAWD 1
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm pawd
.Nd オートマウンタの作業ディレクトリを表示する
.Sh 書式
.Nm
.Op Ar path ...
.Sh 解説
.Nm
は、現在の作業ディレクトリを表示します。このとき、作業ディレクトリの
パスは、オートマウンタを通じて再利用するのに適切なかたちで、かつ可能な限り
最短なものになるように補正して出力されます。とくに、出力されるパスは
.Nm amd
のローカルマウントポイントを含みません。ローカルマウントポイントを使用
することは安全ではありません。その理由は、
.Nm amd
は、管理しているファイルシステムをマウントポイントからアンマウント
することがあり、それゆえ、そのようなポイントをパスに含めると、その中の
ファイルを常に見つけられるとは限らないためです。
.Pp
引数なしで起動した場合、
.Nm
は、オートマウンタ用に補正された現在の作業ディレクトリを出力します。引
数をいくつか指定した場合は、おのおのを
.Ar path
として、
オートマウンタ用に補正して出力します。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr pwd 1 ,
.Xr amd 8 ,
.Xr amq 8
.Sh 歴史
.Nm
ユーティリティは、
.Fx 3.0
で最初に登場しました。
