.\" Copyright (C) 1999 WIDE Project.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of the project nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE PROJECT AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE PROJECT OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     %Id: pim6stat.1,v 1.3 1999/12/16 05:38:06 jinmei Exp %
.\" jpman %Id: pim6stat.1,v 1.3 2000/09/28 04:33:52 horikawa Stab %
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.sbin/pim6sd/pim6stat.1,v 1.1.2.2 2000/05/06 14:22:21 phantom Exp %
.\"
.Dd July 28, 1999
.Dt PIM6STAT 1
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm pim6stat
.Nd PIM for IPv6 の状態を表示する
.Sh 書式
.Nm
.Op Fl d
.Op Fl f dumpfile
.Op Fl p pidfile
.Op Fl s
.Op Fl w waitsec
.Sh 解説
.Nm Pim6stat
は現在動作している PIM for IPv6 デーモンの状態や統計情報を表示します。
実行されると、デーモンが内部状態をファイルにダンプするように
シグナルを送り、ダンプされるのを待ち、そしてファイルの内容を
標準出力に書き出します。
.Pp
.Nm
がサポートするオプション:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl d
dense mode デーモン (もし動作していれば) の状態を表示するよう指示します。
デフォルトでは
.Nm
は sparse mode デーモンを仮定します。
.It Fl f
PIM デーモンが状態を書き出すダンプファイルを指定します。
.It Fl p
現在動作しているデーモンの PID ファイルを指定します。
.It Fl s
状態ではなく統計情報を出力するよう指示します(sparse mode のみ)。
.It Fl w
デーモンにシグナルを送ってからダンプファイルが出力されるまでの
待ち時間を秒単位で指定します。
.El
.Sh 関連ファイル
.Bl -tag -width /var/run/pim6sd.pidX -compact
.It Pa /var/run/pim6sd.pid
sparse mode デーモンのデフォルトの PID ファイル。
.It Pa /var/run/pim6dd.pid
dense mode デーモンのデフォルトの PID ファイル。
.It Pa /var/run/pim6sd.dump
sparse mode デーモンのデフォルトのダンプファイル。
.It Pa /var/run/pim6dd.dump
dense mode デーモンのデフォルトのダンプファイル。
.It Pa /var/run/pim6sd.stat
sparse mode デーモンのデフォルトの統計ダンプファイル。
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr pim6dd 8 ,
.Xr pim6sd 8
.Sh 歴史
.Nm
コマンドは KAME IPv6 プロトコルスタックキットに初めて登場しました。
.Pp
KAME Project (http://www.kame.net/) スタックに基づく
IPv6 および IPsec サポートは、
.Fx 4.0
で初めて統合されました。
.Sh バグ
.Nm Pim6stat
にはスーパユーザの特権が必要です。
.\"
