.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc.
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)printenv.1	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/6/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/printenv/printenv.1,v 1.16 2002/06/28 09:31:03 tjr Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd June 6, 1993
.Dt PRINTENV 1
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm printenv , env
.Nd 環境変数を表示する、環境変数の値を設定、表示する
.Sh 書式
.Nm
.Op Ar name
.Nm env
.Op Fl i
.Op Ar name Ns = Ns Ar value ...
.Op Ar utility Oo Ar argument ... Oc
.Sh 解説
.Nm
ユーティリティは、
環境変数の名前と値を、1 行あたりに 1 組の名前と値の形式で表示します。
.Ar name
が指定されている場合は、その環境変数の値を表示します。
.Pp
シェルによっては、本ユーティリティに似ているまたは同等の、組み込み
.Nm
コマンドを提供しています。
.Xr builtin 1
マニュアルページを参照してください。
.Pp
.Nm env
ユーティリティは、コマンドラインで指定された環境変数の値を変更してから
.Ar utility
を実行します。
引数で
.Ar name Ns = Ns Ar value
を指定することにより、環境変数
.Ar name
の値を
.Ar value
にセットします。
.Pp
オプションは次の通りです:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl i
指定された環境変数のみを使用して
.Ar utility
を実行します。
.Nm env
から継承した環境変数は無視します。
.El
.Pp
.Ar command
を指定しないで実行した場合、
.Nm env
は すべての環境変数について
``name=value'' の形で環境変数の名前と値を表示
します。
.Pp
.Nm env
ユーティリティが有用なのは、
.Dq Li #!
構造とともに使用する場合です (
.Xr execve 2
を参照してください)。
.Dq Li #!/usr/local/bin/foo
と
.Dq Li "#!/usr/bin/env\ /usr/local/bin/foo"
の唯一の違いは、
.Pa /usr/local/bin/foo
自身が解釈される場合でも後者は動作するという点です。
このように
.Nm env
を使用すると、望み通りに環境を設定できるだけでなく、
.Pa foo
をパス無しで参照できます。
.Sh 環境変数
.Nm env
ユーティリティは、名前に
.Ql /
が 1 個も含まれない場合、指定された
.Ar utility
を見付けるために
.Ev PATH
環境変数を使用します。
.Sh 診断
.Ex -std printenv
.Pp
.Ex -std env
終了ステータス 126 は
.Ar utility
が見付かったものの実行不可だったことを示します。
終了ステータス 127 は
.Ar utility
が見付からなかったことを示します。
.Sh 互換性
.Nm env
ユーティリティは、
.Fl i
の同義語として、
.Fl
オプションを受け付けます。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr csh 1 ,
.Xr sh 1 ,
.Xr execvp 3 ,
.Xr environ 7
.Sh 規格
.Nm env
ユーティリティは
.St -p1003.1-2001
に適合しています。
.Sh 歴史
.Nm
コマンドは
.Bx 3.0
から登場しました。
.Sh バグ
理由は明白ですが、
.Nm env
ユーティリティは、イコール (``='') 記号が入ったユーティリティを実行できません。
