.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)pwd.1	8.2 (Berkeley) 4/28/95
.\" %FreeBSD: src/bin/pwd/pwd.1,v 1.24 2004/07/03 00:03:26 ru Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd April 12, 2003
.Dt PWD 1
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm pwd
.Nd ワーキングディレクトリの表示
.Sh 書式
.Nm
.Op Fl L | P
.Sh 解説
.Nm
ユーティリティは、
現在のワーキングディレクトリを絶対パスで標準出力に出力します。
.Pp
シェルによっては、本ユーティリティと似たまたは同じ、組み込みの
.Nm
コマンドを提供しているものがあります。
.Xr builtin 1
マニュアルページを参照してください。
.Pp
オプションは次の通りです:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl L
論理的な現在のワーキングディレクトリを表示します。
.It Fl P
物理的な現在のワーキングディレクトリを表示します
(すべてのシンボリックリンクが解決されます)。
.El
.Pp
オプションを指定しないと、
.Fl P
オプションが仮定されます。
.Sh 環境変数
.Nm
が使用する環境変数は次の通りです:
.Bl -tag -width ".Ev PWD"
.It Ev PWD
論理的な現在のワーキングディレクトリ。
.El
.Sh 診断
.Ex -std
.Sh 規格
.Nm
ユーティリティは
.St -p1003.1-2001
に適合しています。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr builtin 1 ,
.Xr cd 1 ,
.Xr csh 1 ,
.Xr sh 1 ,
.Xr getcwd 3
.Sh バグ
.Xr csh 1
の内部コマンド
.Ic dirs
の方が高速です。なぜなら、シェル組み込みだからです。
しかし、まれに違う答えを返します。
それは、シェルでカレントディレクトリに移動した後に、
カレントディレクトリかその祖先ディレクトリが移動 (訳注: mv)
された場合です。
.Pp
.Ev PWD
環境変数をシェルがエクスポートしていない場合、
.Fl L
オプションは動作しません。
