.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" Robert Elz at The University of Melbourne.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)quota.1	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/6/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/quota/quota.1,v 1.15 2002/12/12 17:26:01 ru Exp %
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd August 8, 2002
.Dt QUOTA 1
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm quota
.Nd ディスクの使用状況と割り当て制限を表示する
.Sh 書式
.Nm
.Op Fl glu
.Op Fl v | Fl q
.Nm
.Op Fl lu
.Op Fl v | Fl q
.Ar user ...
.Nm
.Fl g
.Op Fl l
.Op Fl v | Fl q
.Ar group ...
.Sh 解説
.Nm
ユーティリティは、
ユーザのディスク使用量と割り当て制限を表示します。
デフォルトではユーザに対する割り当て制限に関する情報のみが表示されます。
.Pp
次のオプションを使用可能です:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl g
ユーザが所属するグループに対するグループ割り当て制限を表示します。
.It Fl l
.Tn NFS
ファイルシステムの割り当て制限は表示しません。
.It Fl q
使用量が割り当てを越えたファイルシステムに関する情報だけが含まれる簡潔
なメッセージを表示します。
.It Fl u
ユーザの割り当て制限を表示します。
.Fl g
が指定されない限り、これがデフォルトです。
.It Fl v
使用していないファイルシステムについても割り当て制限を表示します。
.El
.Pp
.Fl g
と
.Fl u
の両方を指定した場合は、(そのユーザの)ユーザ割り当て制限とグループ割
り当て制限の両方が表示されます。
.Pp
スーパユーザに限り、
.Fl u
オプションとユーザ名を引数に指定して
他のユーザの割り当て制限を見ることができます。
スーパユーザ以外でも自分が所属するグループについては、
.Fl g
オプションと
.Ar group
引数を指定することで、自分が属するグループの割り当て制限だけは
見ることができます。
.Pp
.Fl q
オプションは
.Fl v
オプションより優先されます。
.Pp
.Nm
ユーティリティは、
マウントされている全てのファイルシステムに関して報告しようとします。
ファイルシステムが
.Tn NFS
を介してマウントされている場合、
.Xr rpc.rquotad 8
.Tn NFS
サーバのデーモンと連絡しようとします。
.Tn UFS
ファイルシステムでは、
.Nm
は
.Pa /etc/fstab
にて有効にされている必要が有ります。
.Nm
が 0 以外の値を返して終了した場合、割り当て制限を越えているファイルシステムが
あります。
.Pp
.Fl l
フラグが指定された場合、
.Nm
は
.Tn NFS
ファイルシステムをチェックしません。
.Sh 関連ファイル
.Bl -tag -width quota.group -compact
.It Pa quota.user
ファイルシステムのルートディレクトリに置かれたユーザの割り当て制限に関
するデータ
.It Pa quota.group
ファイルシステムのルートディレクトリに置かれたグループの割り当て制限に
関するデータ
.It Pa /etc/fstab
ファイルシステムの名前と位置
.El
.Sh 歴史
.Nm
コマンドは
.Bx 4.2
で登場しました。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr quotactl 2 ,
.Xr fstab 5 ,
.Xr edquota 8 ,
.Xr quotacheck 8 ,
.Xr quotaon 8 ,
.Xr repquota 8 ,
.Xr rpc.rquotad 8
