.\" Copyright (c) 1991 Free Software Foundation
.\" See section COPYING for conditions for redistribution
.\" $FreeBSD$
.TH ranlib 1 "5 November 1991" "cygnus support" "GNU Development Tools"
.de BP
.sp
.ti \-.2i
\(**
..

.SH 名称
ranlib \- アーカイブに対するインデックスの生成

.SH 書式
.hy 0
.na
.B ranlib \c
.RB "[\|" \-v | \-V "\|]"
.I archive\c
\&
.ad b
.hy 1
.SH 解説
.B ranlib
はアーカイブの中身のインデックスを生成し、アーカイブ中に格納します。
インデックスは、再配置可能なオブジェクトファイルであるアーカイブの
メンバによって定義されている、シンボルのリストです。
.PP
.RB ` "nm \-s" '
または
.RB ` "nm \-\-print-armap" '
とすると、このインデックスのリストを見ることができます。
.PP
このようなインデックスを持ったアーカイブは、ライブラリへのリンクを
高速化します。また、ライブラリ中のルーチンがアーカイブ中のどこにあるの
かに関わらず、互いに呼び出すことができるようになります。
.PP
GNU
.B ranlib
プログラムは GNU
.BR ar
の別の表現です。
.B ranlib
を実行することは
.RB ` "ar \-s" '
を実行することと完全に等価です。

.SH オプション
.TP
.B \-v
.B ranlib
のバージョンを表示して終了します。

.SH 関連項目
.B
info\c
\&; 
.I
The GNU Binary Utilities\c
\&, Roland H. Pesch (October 1991) 中のエントリ
.RB "`\|" binutils "\|'"\c
\&;
.BR ar "(" 1 "),"
.BR nm "(" 1 ")."


.SH COPYING
Copyright (c) 1991 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
.PP
Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of
this manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice
are preserved on all copies.
.PP
Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
permission notice identical to this one.
.PP
Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this
manual into another language, under the above conditions for modified
versions, except that this permission notice may be included in
translations approved by the Free Software Foundation instead of in
the original English.
