.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)rcp.1	8.1 (Berkeley) 5/31/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/bin/rcp/rcp.1,v 1.7.2.2 2000/01/07 13:16:51 phantom Exp %
.\" jpman %Id: rcp.1,v 1.2 1997/05/20 01:30:55 mutoh Stab %
.\"
.Dd May 31, 1993
.Dt RCP 1
.Os BSD 4.3r
.Sh 名称
.Nm rcp
.Nd リモートファイルのコピー
.Sh 書式
.Nm rcp
.Op Fl Kpx
.Op Fl k Ar realm
.Ar file1 file2
.Nm rcp
.Op Fl Kprx
.Op Fl k Ar realm
.Ar file ...
.Ar directory
.Sh 解説
.Nm
は、ネットワークでつながれた複数のマシンの間でコピーをするプログラムです。
.Ar file
および
.Ar directory
として
.Dq rname@rhost:path
の形式で指定する
ことにより、それがリモートマシン上のファイルであるとみなされます。
ファイル指定に `:' が含まれていないか、含まれていても `/' の後にある
場合は、ローカルマシンのファイルとみなされます。
.Pp
次のオプションを利用可能です:
.Bl -tag -width flag
.It Fl K
全ての Kerberos による認証を無効にします。
.It Fl k
.Xr krb_realmofhost 3
で決定されるリモートホストの realm のかわりに、
.Ar realm
で指定したリモートホストの チケットを得るようにします。
.It Fl p
.Ar umask
を無視し、転送元のファイルの修正日付とアクセスモードを維持したままコピー
します。デフォルトでは、転送先に同じファイル名のファイルがすでに
存在していれば、そのファイルのモードと所有者が引き継がれ、もしファイルが
存在していなければ、転送元のファイルのモードに転送先のマシンで使われている
.Xr umask 2
のマスクを施したアクセスモードになります。
.It Fl r
転送元としてディレクトリが指定された場合、ディレクトリ下の各ファイルも
再帰的にコピーします。この場合、転送先にはディレクトリを指定しなければ
なりません。
.It Fl x
.Nm
で送るすべてのデータを
.Tn DES
暗号化します。これによりレスポンスタイムと
.Tn CPU
の利用率に影響が生じますが、セキュリティは向上します。
.El
.Pp
.Ar file
がフルパスでなかった場合は、リモートマシン
.Ar rhost
上のユーザ
.Ar ruser
のログインディレクトリ
(リモートユーザ名が指定されていなければ、現在のユーザ名の
ログインディレクトリ) からの相対パスと解釈します。
リモートマシン上のファイル指定にワイルドカードなどのメタキャラクタを
含める場合は、ローカルマシンのシェルによりワイルドカードが
展開されないよう \e, ", \(aa のいずれかでクォートする必要があります。
.Pp
.Nm
では
.Xr rsh  1
を使用するため同様のユーザの認証が必要とされ、パスワードを要求する
プロンプトを出しません。
.Pp
.Nm
では転送元、転送先ともにリモートマシンを指定し、
第三者によるリモートマシン間での
ファイルのコピーを行うこともできます。
.Sh 関連ファイル
.Bl -tag -width /etc/auth.conf -compact
.It Pa /etc/auth.conf
認証サービスの設定
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr cp 1 ,
.Xr ftp 1 ,
.Xr rlogin 1 ,
.Xr rsh 1 ,
.Xr auth.conf 5 ,
.Xr hosts.equiv 5
.Sh 歴史
.Nm
コマンドは
.Bx 4.2
から登場しました。
このバージョンの
.Nm
は、
.Bx 4.3 Reno
において Kerberos を組み込んで再実装されました。
.Sh バグ
ディレクトリが指定されるべき場所にファイルが指定されている場合を検出で
きるとは限りません。
.Pp
リモートホストの
.Pa \&.login ,
.Pa \&.profile ,
.Pa \&.cshrc
のいずれかに含まれるコマンドの出力によって混乱することがあります。
.Pp
転送先のマシンにバージョン
.Bx 4.2
の
.Nm
が動作している場合、
.Dq rhost.rname
のように転送先のユーザ名とホスト
名を指定しなければなりません。
