.\"	%NetBSD: rmdir.1,v 1.9 1995/03/21 09:08:29 cgd Exp %
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)rmdir.1	8.1 (Berkeley) 5/31/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/bin/rmdir/rmdir.1,v 1.7.2.1 1999/08/29 14:13:34 peter Exp %
.\" jpman %Id: rmdir.1,v 1.2 1997/03/29 12:05:03 horikawa Stab %
.\"
.Dd May 31, 1993
.Dt RMDIR 1
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm rmdir
.Nd ディレクトリの削除
.Sh 書式
.Nm rmdir
.Op Fl p
.Ar directory ...
.Sh 解説
.Nm
は、
.Ar directory
で指定したディレクトリが空の場合、削除を行います。
.Pp
.Nm
は、
.Ar directory
で指定した順番にディレクトリの削除を試みます。
親ディレクトリとそのサブディレクトリを削除する場合は、先にサブディ
レクトリが削除されるようにしなければなりません。
.Nm
が親ディレクトリを削除する時に、
当該親ディレクトリが空となっている必要があるからです。
.Pp
オプションとしては以下のものがあります:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl p
各
.Ar directory
引数を構成する各ディレクトリに関しても、
そのディレクトリが空の場合、削除を行います。
削除は最後の要素から行います。(
.Xr rm 1
の完全な無差別再帰削除を参照して下さい。)
.El
.Pp
.Nm
は以下のいずれかの値を返します:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Li \&0
引数で指定されるディレクトリは空であり、削除に成功しました。
.It Li \&>\&0
エラーが発生しました。
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr rm 1
.Sh 規格
.Nm
コマンドは
.St -p1003.2
互換です。
.Sh 歴史
.Nm
コマンドは
.At v1
から登場しました。
