.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1985, 1991 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/rup/rup.1,v 1.7.2.4 2001/04/26 01:33:02 dd Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD:$
.\"
.Dd June 7, 1993
.Dt RUP 1
.Os BSD 4.3
.Sh 名称
.Nm rup
.Nd ローカルネットワーク上のマシンの現在のシステム状態を表示する
.Sh 書式
.Nm
.Op Ar host ...
.Sh 解説
.Nm
は、特定の
.Ar host
、もしくはローカルネットワーク上のすべてのマシンについて、
現在のシステム状態を表示します。コマンド出力には、現在時刻、システムが立ち上
がってからの経過時間、そしてロードアベレージが表示されます。ロードアベレージ
は、実行キューにつながれているジョブの数を、過去 1 分、5 分、15 分間にわたって
平均化したものです。
.Pp
本コマンドを使用する場合、対象ホスト上で
.Xr rpc.rstatd 8
デーモンが起動している必要があります。
.Nm
は
.Pa /usr/include/rpcsvc/rstat.x
に定義されている RPC プロトコルを
使用します。
.Sh 使用例
.Bd -unfilled -offset indent -compact
example% rup otherhost
otherhost   7:36am  up 6 days, 16:45,  load average: 0.20, 0.23, 0.18
example%
.Ed
.Sh 診断
.Bl -diag
.It rup: RPC: Program not registered
rup の対象となるリモートホスト上で
.Xr rpc.rstatd 8
が動作していません。
.It rup: RPC: Timed out
通信エラーが発生しました。ネットワークが極端に混雑しているか、
.Xr rpc.rstatd 8
がリモートホスト上で異常終了しました。
.It rup: RPC: Port mapper failure - RPC: Timed out
リモートホスト上で portmapper (
.Xr portmap 8
参照) が動作しておらず、
RPC ベースのサービスが受けられません。ホストがダウンしている可能性が
あります。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr portmap 8 ,
.Xr rpc.rstatd 8
.Sh 歴史
.Nm
コマンドは
.Tn SunOS
から登場しました。
.Sh バグ
ソート用のオプションは実装されていません。
