.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1990, 1993, 1994
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)ruptime.1	8.2 (Berkeley) 4/5/94
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/ruptime/ruptime.1,v 1.16 2004/07/02 22:22:30 ru Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd March 1, 2003
.Dt RUPTIME 1
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm ruptime
.Nd ローカルネットワーク上の各マシンについて uptime と同様のステータスを表示する
.Sh 書式
.Nm
.Op Fl alrtu
.Op Ar host ...
.Sh 解説
.Nm
ユーティリティは、ローカルネットワーク上に接続された全マシンについて、
.Xr uptime 1
と同様の表示を行ないます。この表示は、ネットワーク上の各ホストから 3 分ごとに
ブロードキャストされるパケットをもとに作成されます。
.Pp
オペランドが与えられない場合、
.Nm
は全マシンの uptime ステータスを表示します。
そうでない場合、コマンド行に指定されたホストのみが表示されます。
コマンド行にホストが指定された場合、表示されるホストの順番は、
コマンド行にホストが指定された順番と同じです。
.Pp
状態レポートのブロードキャストが 11 分以上途切れているホストについては、
システムダウンしているものとみなします。
4 日以上状態レポートを受け取らないホストについては、まったく表示しません。
.Pp
以下のオプションが使用可能です。
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl a
すべてのユーザを含めます。
デフォルトでは、ユーザが 1 時間以上システムへ入力しなかった場合、
そのユーザは出力から省略されます。
.It Fl l
ロードアベレージ順にソートします。
.It Fl r
ソート順を逆にします。
.It Fl t
uptime 順にソートします。
.It Fl u
ユーザ数の順にソートします。
.El
.Pp
デフォルトではリストをホスト名でソートします。
.Sh 関連ファイル
.Bl -tag -width /var/rwho/whod.* -compact
.It Pa /var/rwho/whod.*
データファイル
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr rwho 1 ,
.Xr uptime 1 ,
.Xr rwhod 8
.Sh 歴史
.Nm
ユーティリティは
.Bx 4.2
から登場しました。
