.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1990 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     from: @(#)rusers.1	6.7 (Berkeley) 4/23/91
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/rusers/rusers.1,v 1.8.2.3 2001/01/16 10:40:44 ru Exp %
.\" jpman %Id: rusers.1,v 1.3 1997/08/20 12:45:29 horikawa Stab %
.\"
.Dd April 23, 1991
.Dt RUSERS 1
.Os BSD 4.2
.Sh 名称
.Nm rusers
.Nd ローカルネットワークの各マシンに誰がログインしているか
.Sh 書式
.Nm
.Op Fl al
.Op Ar host ...
.Sh 解説
.Nm
コマンドは
.Xr who 1
と同様の結果を出力しますが、
指定した
.Ar host
のリスト、あるいはローカルネットワーク上の全マシンに対する
結果を出力します。
rusers の問い合わせに返答した各
.Ar host
に対して、
現在ログインしているユーザ名がホスト名と共に各行に出力されます。
返答の遅いホストのために
.Nm
コマンドは 1 分間待ちます。
.Pp
以下のオプションが利用可能です:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl a
たとえ誰もログインしていなくても、応答してきた全てのマシンの情報を
出力します。
.It Fl l
長いフォーマットで出力します。
以下の情報が表示されます。
ユーザ名、ホスト名、ユーザがログインしている tty 名、
ユーザがログインした日付と時刻、
ユーザがキーボードを最後にタイプしてからの時間、
(もし適用可能ならば)ログイン元のリモートホスト名。
.El
.Sh 診断
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Nm Ns : RPC: Program not registered
リモートホスト上で
.Xr rpc.rusersd 8
デーモンが起動されていません。
.It Nm Ns : RPC: Timed out
通信エラーが生じました。
ネットワークが非常に混んでいるか、リモートホスト上の
.Xr rpc.rusersd 8
デーモンが終了しました。
.It Nm Ns : "RPC: Port mapper failure - RPC: Timed out"
リモートホストで portmapper (
.Xr portmap 8
参照)が動いておらず、全ての RPC ベースのサービスが利用できません。
ホストがダウンしている可能性があります。
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr rwho 1 ,
.Xr users 1 ,
.Xr who 1 ,
.Xr portmap 8 ,
.Xr rpc.rusersd 8
.Sh 歴史
.Nm
コマンドは
.Em Sun-OS
で登場しました。
.Sh バグ
ソートオプションが実装されていません。
