.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1990 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     from: @(#)rwall.1	6.7 (Berkeley) 4/23/91
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/rwall/rwall.1,v 1.7.2.3 2001/04/26 01:33:06 dd Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD:$
.\"
.Dd April 23, 1991
.Dt RWALL 1
.Os BSD 4.2
.Sh 名称
.Nm rwall
.Nd 指定したホストにログインしているユーザにメッセージを送る
.Sh 書式
.Nm
.Ar host
.Op Ar file
.Sh 解説
.Nm
は、指定した
.Ar host
にログインしているユーザにメッセージを送信します。
送信するメッセージとしては、端末から入力され EOF で終了するものか、
.Ar file
に記述されているものを用いることが出来ます。
.Sh 診断
.Bl -diag
.It rwall: RPC: Program not registered
.Xr rpc.rwalld 8
デーモンがリモートホスト上で動作していません。
.It rwall: RPC: Timed out
通信エラーが発生しました。ネットワークが非常に混雑しているか、あるいは
.Xr rpc.rwalld 8
デーモンがリモートホスト上で異常終了しました。
.It rwall: RPC: Port mapper failure - RPC: Timed out
リモートホスト上で
.Xr portmap 8
が動作しておらず (
.Xr portmap 8
参照)、RPC を用いたサービスを受けることが出来ません。
ホストがダウンしている可能性があります。
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr who 1 ,
.Xr portmap 8 ,
.Xr rpc.rwalld 8
.Sh 歴史
.Nm
コマンドは
.Tn SunOS
から登場しました。
.Sh バグ
ソートオプションは実装されていません。
