.\" sasc(1) - manual page for the `asc' scanner device driver utility
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1995 Gunther Schadow.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by Gunther Schadow.
.\" 4. The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote products
.\"    derived from this software without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/sasc/sasc.1,v 1.9.2.2 2000/12/19 16:22:26 ru Exp %
.\" jpman %Id: sasc.1,v 1.3 1997/07/22 17:55:16 horikawa Stab %
.\"
.Dd January 6, 1995
.Dt SASC 1
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm sasc
.Nd asc スキャナデバイスのオプションを設定する
.Sh 書式
.Nm
.Op Fl sq
.Op Fl b Ar len
.Op Fl f Ar file
.Op Fl h Ar height
.Op Fl r Ar resolution
.Op Fl t Ar timeout
.Op Fl w Ar width
.Sh 解説
.Nm
ユーティリティは、ハンディデバイスドライバ 
asc によって提供される ioctl への、シェルレベルのアクセスを提供します。
リクエストの正確な意味に付いては、
.Xr asc 4
を参照してください。
一般に、asc スキャナデバイスの出力と振舞いを変更します。
.Nm
がオプション無しで呼び出された場合、現在の設定が
報告されます。
.Pp
次のオプションを使用可能です:
.Bl -tag -width indent
以下のオプションを使用可能です。
.It Fl s Bq ASC_SRESSW
スキャナの解像度選択スイッチの値を設定します。
.It Fl q
沈黙モードで動作します。つまり、現在の設定に付いて一切の報告をしません。
通常は、変更が行われた後で、パラメータが表示されます。
.TP
.It Fl f Ar file
ファイル名で与えられたスキャナデバイスノードを操作します。
同じデバイスユニットを参照しているいくつかの異なる
スキャナデバイスノードが存在できることに注意してください。
変更は、アクセスされているデバイスノードに無関係に行われます。
.It Fl r Ar resolution Bq ASC_SRES
解像度を dpi (インチ当たりのドット数) で指定します。
.It Fl w width Bq ASC_SWIDTH
ビットマップの幅をピクセル数で設定します。
.It Fl h height Bq ASC_SHEIGHT
ビットマップの高さをピクセル数で設定します。
.It Fl b len Bq ASC_SBLEN
内部 DMA バッファを大きさ
.Ar len
行に設定します。
.It Fl t timeout Bq ASC_SBTIME
一つの DMA バッファを読み込む際のタイムアウトを設定します。
.El
.Sh 関連ファイル
.Bl -tag -width /var/rwho/whod.* -compact
.It Pa /dev/asc0
.Em raw
出力のためのデバイスノード
.It Pa /dev/asc0p
.Em pbm
ファイルフォーマット出力のためのデバイスノード
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr asc 4
.Sh 作者
.An Gunther Schadow Aq gusw@fub46.zedat.fu-berlin.de
