.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)script.1	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/6/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/script/script.1,v 1.12.2.1 2000/12/08 15:14:05 ru Exp %
.\" jpman %Id: script.1,v 1.2 1997/03/29 08:26:02 horikawa Stab %
.\"
.Dd June 6, 1993
.Dt SCRIPT 1
.Os BSD 4
.Sh 名称
.Nm script
.Nd 端末上に表示したすべてのもののログをとる
.Sh 書式
.Nm
.Op Fl a
.Op Fl k
.Op Fl q
.Op Fl t Ar time
.Op Ar file Op command ...
.Sh 解説
.Nm
は、端末上に表示したすべてのもののログ (typescript) をとります。記録後に
.Xr lpr 1
で印刷することもできるので、
学生の宿題の証明等で対話的セッションのハードコピー
が必要なときなどには有効です。
.Pp
.Ar file
が指定されていればそのファイルに、指定されていなければ
.Pa typescript
というファイル名で記録されます。
.Pp
引数
.Ar command ...
を指定すると、
.Nm
は対話シェルの代りに指定したコマンドをオプションの引数ベクタ付きで実行します。
.Pp
オプションとしては以下のものがあります:
.Bl -tag -width xxxxxxx
.It Fl a
.Ar file
もしくは
.Pa typescript
がすでに存在している場合には、それに追加する形で記録していきます。
.It Fl k
出力だけでなくプログラムに送られたキー入力も記録します。
.It Fl q
静かなモードで実行します。開始時と終了時のステータスメッセージを省略します。
.It Fl t Ar time
スクリプト出力ファイルにフラッシュする間隔を指定します。
値 0 を指定すると
.Nm
は文字 I/O イベントごとにフラッシュします。
デフォルトのフラッシュ間隔は 30 秒です。
.El
.Pp
.Nm
は、フォークしたシェル(またはコマンド)を終了したとき (
Bourne シェル
.Pf ( Xr sh 1 )
なら
.Em control-D
で終了しますし、
C シェル
.Xr csh 1
なら
.Em exit ,
.Em logout ,
.Em control-D
(
.Em ignoreeof
が設定されていない場合)
で終了します
) に記録を終わります。
.Pp
.Xr vi 1
などのある種の対話コマンドでは、ログファイルにゴミが入る
ことがあります。
.Nm
は、画面を操作しないようなコマンドについては、うまく動作します。
出力結果はハードコピー端末のエミュレーションと言えるでしょう。
.Sh 環境変数
.Nm
は次の環境変数を使用します:
.Bl -tag -width SHELL
.It Ev SHELL
.Nm
がフォークするシェルを指定します。
.Ev SHELL
が設定されていない場合は Bourne シェルが使われます。
(ほとんどのシェルはこの変数を自動的に設定します)
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr csh 1
(
.Em history
機能に関連)
.Sh 歴史
.Nm
コマンドは
.Bx 3.0
から登場しました。
.Sh バグ
.Nm
は、ログファイルにラインフィードやバックスペースも含め、
.Sy なんでも
記録
します。このためユーザの期待したものと違うログになることもあります。
.Pp
スクリプトファイルを指定せずにコマンドを指定することはできません。
これは引数解析の互換性確保のためです。
.Pp
.Fl k
オプションが指定されている場合には、エコーキャンセルは理想と程遠いです。
スレーブ端末モードの ECHO モードがチェックされ、
手動エコー記録をいつ避けるべきかがチェックされます。
これは raw モード時、すなわちプログラムが手動エコーを行う時には動作しません。
