.\" sgsc(1) - manual page for the `gsc' scanner device driver utility
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1995 Gunther Schadow.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by Gunther Schadow.
.\" 4. The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote products
.\"    derived from this software without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
.\"
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.sbin/sgsc/sgsc.1,v 1.8.2.1 2000/12/08 15:28:56 ru Exp %
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" jpman %Id: sgsc.1,v 1.3 1997/06/12 22:00:17 horikawa Stab %
.Dd January 6, 1995
.Dt SGSC 1
.Os
.Sh 名前
.Nm sgsc
.Nd gsc スキャナデバイスのオプションを設定する
.Sh 書式
.Nm
.Op Fl sq
.Op Fl b Ar len
.Op Fl f Ar file
.Op Fl h Ar height
.Op Fl r Ar resolution
.Op Fl t Ar timeout
.Op Fl w Ar width
.Sh 解説
.Nm
ユーティリティはハンディスキャナデバイスドライバである gsc 
によって提供される ioctl リクエストへのシェルレベルでのアクセスを提供
します。リクエストの正確な意味については
.Xr gsc 4
を参照して下さい。一般的
にはリクエストは gsc スキャナデバイスの出力と動作を変更します。
.Nm
がオプションなしで実行された時には、現在の設定の報告のみを
行ないます。
.Pp
以下のオプションを使用可能です。
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl s Bq GSC_SRESSW
解像度選択スイッチの値にてスキャナを設定します。
.It Fl q
クワイエットモードで実行します。すなわち、現在の設定についての報告は行
ないません。通常は、変更が行なわれるとパラメータが表示されます。
.It Fl f Ar file
ファイル名によって与えられた、異なるスキャナデバイスのノードに対して操
作します。複数のスキャナデバイスのノードがある場合でも、それらのいくつ
かは同じデバイスユニットを参照していることがあることに注意して下さい。 
変更はそれをアクセスするデバイスノードではなく、指定したユニットに対し
て実行されます。
.It Fl r Ar resolution Bq GSC_SRES
解像度を dpi でセットします。
.It Fl w Ar width Bq GSC_SWIDTH
ビットマップの幅をピクセルでセットします。
.It Fl h Ar height Bq GSC_SHEIGHT
ビットマップの高さをピクセルのライン数でセットします。
.It Fl b Ar len Bq GSC_SBLEN
内部の dma バッファサイズを
.Ar len
行となるようにセットします。
.It Fl t Ar timeout Bq GSC_SBTIME
dma バッファを一つ読み込む時のタイムアウト時間をセットします。
.El
.Sh 関連ファイル
.Bl -tag -width /dev/gsc0p -compact
.It Pa /dev/gsc0
.Em raw
出力のデバイスノード
.It Pa /dev/gsc0p
.Em pbm
ファイルフォーマットで出力するデバイスノード
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr gsc 4
.Sh 作者
Gunther Schadow <gusw@fub46.zedat.fu-berlin.de>
