.\"	%NetBSD: shar.1,v 1.3 1994/12/21 08:42:03 jtc Exp %
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)shar.1	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/6/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/shar/shar.1,v 1.7.2.1 2000/12/19 16:22:27 ru Exp %
.\" jpman %Id: shar.1,v 1.3 1997/05/19 16:58:30 horikawa Stab %
.\"
.Dd June 6, 1993
.Dt SHAR 1
.Os BSD 4.4
.Sh 名称
.Nm shar
.Nd ファイルのシェルアーカイブを作成する
.Sh 書式
.Nm
.Ar
.Sh 解説
.Nm
コマンドは、コマンドラインで指定したファイル階層を再生成するための
.Xr sh 1
のスクリプトファイルを生成するものです (ちなみに、
.Nm
自身、シェルスクリプトです)。
.Nm
で生成されるスクリプトファイルでディレクトリ
を再生成する場合、コマンドライン上での指定は、その中に作成されるファイルより
も先にディレクトリを指定しなくてはなりません (
.Xr find 1
の出力はこの順番で出るので、正しく動作します)。
.Pp
.Nm
コマンドは、通常は少数のファイルを
.Xr ftp 1
や
.Xr mail 1
を用いて配布する場合に用いられます。
.Sh 関連ファイル
.Xr compress 1 ,
.Xr mail 1 ,
.Xr tar 1 ,
.Xr uuencode 1
.Sh バグ
.Nm
は、特殊な形式のファイルや、特定の文字をサポートするようには出来ていません。
.Nm
コマンドは最後の文字として改行 ('\\n') を含まないファイルを扱えません。
.Pp
.Nm
ファイルにトロイの木馬 (ウイルスの一種) をもぐり込ませることは
簡単に出来ます。
すべてのシェルアーカイブファイルは、
.Xr sh 1
を用いて走行させる前に、十分に点検を行なうことを強くおすすめします。
このインプリメントの
.Nm
を用いて作成されたアーカイブならは、以下の
コマンドで簡単に点検ができます。
.Bd -literal -offset indent
egrep -v '^[X#]' shar.file
.Ed
.Sh 使用例
プログラム
.Xr ls  1
のシェルアーカイブを作成して Rick にメールするには以下のようにします:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
cd ls
shar `find . -print` \&|  mail -s "ls source" rick
.Ed
.Pp
このプログラムを再作成するには以下のようにします:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
mkdir ls
cd ls
\&...
<メールのヘッダを削除してアーカイブの検査をします>
\&...
sh archive
.Ed
.Sh 歴史
.Nm
コマンドは
.Bx 4.4
から登場しました。
