.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1990, 1993
.\"     The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"     This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"     California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)soelim.1    8.1 (Berkeley) 6/6/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/soelim/soelim.1,v 1.4 1999/08/28 01:05:48 peter Exp %
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd June 6, 1993
.Dt SOELIM 1
.Os BSD 3
.Sh 名称
.Nm soelim
.Nd nroff への入力ファイルに \&.so が含まれないようにする
.Sh 書式
.Nm
.Op Ar
.Sh 解説
.Nm
は、指定したファイルまたは標準入力を読み込み、次の形式の
.Xr ntoff 1
テキスト組み込みディレクティブを処理します:
.Pp
.Dl \&.so somefile
.Pp
ディレクティブは、入力ファイルの行頭に出現する必要があります。
.Xr tbl 1
と言ったプログラムは通常ディレクティブ行を処理しないので、便利です;
別々のファイルに分かれた表を 1 つのドキュメントにまとめることができます。
.Pp
単一のマイナス
.Ql Fl
で構成される引数は、標準入力に対応するファイル名とされます。
.Pp
組み込みは
.Ql \e.
の代わりに
.Ql \e'
を使用して抑える事ができます。
例:
.Pp
.Dl \'so /usr/lib/tmac.s
.Pp
.Nm
の使用例
.Pp
.Bd -literal -offset indent -compact
soelim exum?.n \&| tbl \&| nroff \-ms \&| col \&| lpr
.Ed
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr colcrt 1 ,
.Xr more 1
.Sh バグ
組み込みコマンドの形式に疑問が残ってはなりません \-
ファイル名の前には唯 1 つの空白があり、後には空白を付けてはなりません。
.Sh 歴史
.Nm
は
.Bx 3.0
から登場しました。
