.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1991, 1993, 1994
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)split.1	8.3 (Berkeley) 4/16/94
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/split/split.1,v 1.14 2004/07/11 15:04:16 tjr Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd July 12, 2004
.Dt SPLIT 1
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm split
.Nd ファイルを分割する
.Sh 書式
.Nm
.Op Fl a Ar suffix_length
.Op Fl b Ar byte_count[k|m]
.Op Fl l Ar line_count
.Op Fl p Ar pattern
.Op Ar file Op Ar name
.Sh 解説
.Nm
は、指定された
.Ar file
を 1000 行ごとに分割します。
.Ar file
が単一のダッシュ
.Pq Sq Fl
または無い場合、
.Nm
は標準入力を読み込みます。
.Pp
オプションは以下のとおりです。
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl a
.Ar suffix_length
文字を、ファイル名のサフィックスの生成に使用します。
.It Fl b
.Ar byte_count
バイト単位で分割します。
.Dq Li k
を数字の後ろに付けた場合は、
.Ar byte_count
キロバイト単位で分割します。
.Dq Li m
を数字の後ろに付けた場合は、
.Ar byte_count
メガバイト単位で分割します。
.It Fl l
.Ar n
行単位で分割します。
.It Fl p Ar pattern
拡張正規表現として解釈される
.Ar pattern
に入力行がマッチするたび、ファイルが分割されます。
マッチする行は、次の出力ファイルの最初の行になります。
本オプションは、
.Fl b
および
.Fl l
のオプションと共には指定できません。
.El
.Pp
オプションのあとに引数を指定した場合、最初の引数は
入力ファイルの名前として扱われます。
その次の引数は、分割したデータを格納する
ファイル名の接頭語として扱われます。
この場合、分割したデータを格納するファイル名は
接頭語のあとに
.Dq Li a-z
の範囲の
.Ar suffix_length
個の文字を付けたファイルに、辞書式順序で分割されます。
.Fl a
が指定されない場合、2 文字が接尾語として使用されます。
.Pp
.Ar name
引数が指定されなかった場合、分割されたデータ名は、接頭語が
.Dq Li x-z
の範囲となり、前述の接尾語が付きます。
.Sh 環境変数
.Xr environ 7
に記述されているように、
.Ev LANG , LC_ALL , LC_CTYPE
環境変数は
.Nm
の実行に影響を及ぼします。
.Sh 診断
.Ex -std
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr csplit 1 ,
.Xr re_format 7
.Sh 規格
.Nm
ユーティリティは
.St -p1003.1-2001
に適合しています。
.Sh 歴史
.Nm
コマンドは
.At v3
から登場しました。
.Sh バグ
歴史的な理由により、
.Ar name
を指定した場合は、
.Nm
は 最大 676 個のファイルにしか分割できません。
デフォルトのファイル名に分割した場合は、最大 2028 個の
ファイルに分割することができます。
.Fl a
オプションを使用することで、この限界を回避できます。
.Pp
パターンにマッチする最大行長は 65536 です。
