.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1990 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)symorder.1	6.5 (Berkeley) 4/22/91
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/symorder/symorder.1,v 1.9 1999/08/28 01:05:56 peter Exp %
.\" jpman %Id: symorder.1,v 1.3 1997/07/22 17:57:18 horikawa Stab %
.\"
.Dd April 22, 1991
.Dt SYMORDER 1
.Os BSD 3
.Sh 名称
.Nm symorder
.Nd 名前のリストを並べ替える
.Sh 書式
.Nm
.Fl c
.Fl m
.Fl t
.Fl x
.Ar excludelist
.Ar symlist file
.Sh 解説
.Ar symlist
ファイルは、
.Ar file
中に見付かるシンボルのリストを、一行当たり 1 シンボル、含んでいます。
.Pp
シンボル表
.Ar file
は適切に更新されます。シンボルは
.Ar symlist
から読み込まれ、与えられた順番で表の始めから並べられます。
.Bl -tag -width flag
.It Fl c
.Ar symlist 
には含まれない全てのシンボルを、このファイルローカルとします。
.It Fl t
シンボル表を
.Ar symlist 
に並んでいるシンボルに制限します。
.It Fl x Ar excludelist
シンボル表から
.Ar excludelist
に並んでいるシンボルを除きます。
.It Fl m
いくつかのシンボルが足りなくても、状態 0 で終了します。
.El
.Pp
このプログラムは、特に
.Pa /kernel
からシンボルを得るためのオーバヘッドを減らすように、
設計されています。
.Sh 診断
.Nm
は成功した場合 0 で終了します。
.Ar symlist
ファイル中のシンボルがシンボル表に見付からない場合は 1 で終了し、
エラーが起こった場合は 1 より大きな数で終了します。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr nm 1 ,
.Xr strip 1 ,
.Xr nlist 3
.Sh 歴史
.Nm
コマンドは
.Bx 3.0 
から導入されました。
