.\" Copyright (c) 2002 Tim J. Robbins.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/tabs/tabs.1,v 1.6 2002/11/26 17:33:36 ru Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd May 20, 2002
.Dt TABS 1
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm tabs
.Nd 端末のタブの設定
.Sh 書式
.Nm
.Op Fl Ar n | Fl a | a2 | c | c2 | c3 | f | p | s | u
.Op Cm +m Ns Op Ar n
.Op Fl T Ar type
.Nm
.Op Fl T Ar type
.Op Cm + Ns Op Ar n
.Ar n1 Ns Op Ns , Ns Ar n2 , Ns ...
.Sh 解説
.Nm
ユーティリティは、ハードウェア端末タブの設定をクリアする一連の文字を表示し、
指定した位置へタブを初期化し、オプションでマージンを調整します。
.Pp
書式の第 1 形式では、タブストップ設定はコマンドラインオプションに依存し、
定義済みのフォーマットのひとつであるか一定間隔のどちらかになります。
.Pp
書式の第 2 形式では、タブストップ設定は位置
.Ar n1 , n2
等になります。
位置の前に
.Ql +
が付くと、直前の位置設定からの相対になります。
20 を越えた位置は指定できません。
.Pp
タブストップをなにも指定しないと、
.Dq 標準
の
.Ux
タブ幅、つまり 8 が使用されます。
.Pp
オプションは次の通りです:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl Ar n
タブストップを各
.Ar n
列に設定します。
.Ar n
が 0 の場合、タブストップはクリアされ、新規のタブストップは設定されません。
.It Fl a
アセンブラフォーマット (列 1, 10, 16, 36, 72)。
.It Fl a2
アセンブラフォーマット (列 1, 10, 16, 40, 72)。
.It Fl c
.Tn COBOL
通常フォーマット (列 1, 8, 12, 16, 20, 55)。
.It Fl c2
.Tn COBOL
コンパクトフォーマット (列 1, 6, 10, 14, 49)。
.It Fl c3
.Tn COBOL
コンパクトフォーマット (列 1, 6, 10, 14, 18, 22, 26, 30, 34, 38, 42, 46,
50, 54, 58, 62, 67)。
.It Fl f
.Tn FORTRAN
フォーマット (列 1, 7, 11, 15, 19, 23)。
.It Fl p
.Tn PL/1
フォーマット (列 1, 5, 9, 13, 17, 21, 25, 29, 33, 37, 41, 45, 49, 53,
57, 61)。
.It Fl s
.Tn SNOBOL
フォーマット (columns 1, 10, 55)。
.It Fl u
アセンブラフォーマット (列 1, 12, 20, 44)。
.It Xo
.Cm +m Ns Op Ar n ,
.Cm + Ns Op Ar n
.Xc
.Ar n
文字、
.Ar n
省略時には 10 文字の左マージンを設定します。
.It Fl T Ar type
端末型
.Ar type
用のエスケープシーケンスを出力します。
.El
.Sh 環境変数
.Ev LANG , LC_ALL , LC_CTYPE ,
.Ev TERM
の環境変数が、
.Xr environ 7
の記述通りに、
.Nm
の実行に影響します。
.Pp
.Fl T
オプションは、
.Ev TERM
環境変数の設定に優先します。
.Ev TERM
も
.Fl T
オプションも存在しない場合、
.Nm
は失敗します。
.Sh 診断
.Ex -std
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr expand 1 ,
.Xr stty 1 ,
.Xr tput 1 ,
.Xr unexpand 1 ,
.Xr termcap 5
.Sh 規格
.Nm
ユーティリティは
.St -p1003.1-2001
に適合しています。
.Sh 歴史
.Nm
ユーティリティは PWB UNIX に登場しました。
この実装は
.Fx 5.0
で導入されました。
.Sh バグ
現在の
.Xr termcap 5
データベースは、
.Ql ML
(左ソフトマージンの設定) ケーパビリティをいかなる端末に対しても定義しません。
