.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)talk.1	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/6/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/talk/talk.1,v 1.6 2000/03/01 12:20:11 sheldonh Exp %
.\" jpman %Id: talk.1,v 1.2 1997/05/04 13:39:47 horikawa Stab %
.\"
.Dd June 6, 1993
.Dt TALK 1
.Os BSD 4.2
.Sh 名称
.Nm talk
.Nd 他のユーザと会話(筆談)を行う
.Sh 書式
.Nm
.Ar person
.Op Ar ttyname
.Sh 解説
.Nm
は、視覚的な通信プログラムで、
端末に入力された行を他のユーザの端末にコピーします。
.Pp
オプション:
.Bl -tag -width ttyname
.It Ar person
ログイン名だけを指定したときは、同じマシンにいるユーザ
と会話をすることができます。他のマシンのユーザと会話をしたい場合は、
.Ql user@host
または 
.Ql host!user
または 
.Ql host:user
という形で
.Ar person
を指定します。
.It Ar ttyname
複数の端末にログイン しているユーザと会話をしたい場合、端末名
.Ar ttyname
を指定することができます。
.Ar ttyename
は
.Dq ttyXX
という形で指定します。
.El
.Pp
最初に呼び出しを行うとき、
.Nm
は以下のようなメッセージを
.Ar person
に送ります。
.Bd -literal -offset indent -compact
Message from TalkDaemon@his_machine...
talk: connection requested by your_name@your_machine.
talk: respond with: talk your_name@your_machine
.Ed
.Pp
メッセージを送られた相手は、この時点で以下のように返事をする必要があります。
.Pp
.Dl talk \ your_name@your_machine
.Pp
ログイン名が同じであれば、相手はどのマシンから返事をしてもかまいません。
一度、相手との接続が確立すると、2人のユーザは同時に書き込みを行うこと
ができます。2人の書き込み結果は、異なったウィンドウに分割されて表示さ
れます。control-L
.Ql ^L
を打ち込むと、画面を書き直します。また、erase, kill, word kill 文字
は通常どおりの動作をします。会話を終了するには、中断 (interrupt) 文字を
入力します。
.Nm
は、カーソルを画面の一番下に移動させ、端末を元の状態に戻します。
.Pp
.Nm
から呼び出しを許すかどうかは、
.Xr mesg 1
で指定することができます。
.Xr mesg 1
で設定してないときは、
.Nm
からの呼び出しは許可されています。ただし、
.Xr nroff 1
や
.Xr pr 1
などのプログラムなどは、
.Nm
からの呼び出しで出力画面が見にくくならないように、メッセージを拒否します。
.Pp
.Sh 関連ファイル
.Bl -tag -width /var/run/utmp -compact
.It Pa /etc/hosts
受信者のホスト名を知るために用いる
.It Pa /var/run/utmp
受信者の端末名を知るために用いる
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr mail 1 ,
.Xr mesg 1 ,
.Xr who 1 ,
.Xr write 1
.Sh バグ
.Bx 4.3
で使われているバージョンの
.Xr talk 1
のプロトコルは、
.Bx 4.2
のものとは互換性がありません。
.Sh 歴史
.Nm
コマンドは
.Bx 4.2
から登場しました。
