.\" Copyright (c) 1985, 1990, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)tcopy.1	8.2 (Berkeley) 4/17/94
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/tcopy/tcopy.1,v 1.7.2.1 2000/12/19 16:22:30 ru Exp %
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd April 17, 1994
.Dt TCOPY 1
.Os BSD 4.3
.Sh 名称
.Nm tcopy
.Nd 磁気テープのコピー、ベリファイを行う
.Sh 書式
.Nm
.Op Fl cvx
.Op Fl s Ar maxblk
.Oo Ar src Op Ar dest
.Oc
.Sh 解説
.Nm
は、磁気テープのコピーのためのプログラムです。
記録したデータの終わりに 2 つのテープマークがあるような
磁気テープを想定しています。
ソーステープ (デフォルトでは
.Ar /dev/rsa0 )
だけが指定された場合は、
レコードサイズとテープのファイルに関する情報を表示します。
ディスティネーションが指定された場合は、ソーステープがコピーされます。
ディスティネーションテープのブロッキングはソーステープと同じになります。
テープをコピーすると、サイズを表示する場合と同様の表示が得られます。
.Pp
オプションには次のものがあります。
.Bl -tag -width s_maxblk
.It Fl c
.Ar src
から
.Ar dest
へコピーした後、両方のテープが同一であることを確認するためベリファイをします。
.It Fl s Ar maxblk
ブロックサイズの最大値を
.Ar maxblk
で指定した値にします。
.It Fl v
.Ar src
と
.Ar dest
の両方のテープが同一であることを確認するためベリファイのみを行ないます。
.It Fl x
標準出力へ全メッセージを出力します。
このオプションは
.Ar dest
が
.Pa /dev/stdout
の時に役に立ちます。
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr mtio 4
.Sh 歴史
.Nm
コマンドは
.Bx 4.3
から登場しました。
.Sh バグ
.Bl -item
.It
テープイメージをファイルへ書き込むと、生データ程は保たれません。
ブロックサイズとテープの EOF マークは失われます。
これらは、テープからテープへのコピーでは保たれます。
.It
EOD は、間にデータを持たない 2 個の連続した EOF マークで、判定されます。
古いシステムには、
テープファイル間に、典型的には 3 個の EOF を書き込むものがあります。
この場合、
.Xr tcopy 1
は誤ってしまい、早期にテープコピーを停止してしまいます。
.It
コピーとベリファイのオプション \-c を使用すると、
.Xr tcopy 1
は開始時にテープを巻戻しません。
書き込み後、ベリファイ前に、巻き戻しされます。
BOT から開始していない場合、
意図したデータに対する比較にはならないかもしれません。
.El