.\" Copyright (c) 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)tee.1	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/6/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/tee/tee.1,v 1.4 1999/08/28 01:06:21 peter Exp %
.\" jpman %Id: tee.1,v 1.2 1997/03/29 11:45:44 horikawa Stab %
.\"
.Dd June 6, 1993
.Dt TEE 1
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm tee
.Nd 標準入力を、標準出力とファイルにコピーする
.Sh 書式
.Nm
.Op Fl ai
.Op Ar
.Sh 解説
.Nm
は、標準入力を標準出力にコピーするのと同時に、
file で指定した 0 もしくはそれ以上のファイルにも書き込みます。
その際、出力はバッファリングされません。
.Pp
オプションとしては以下のものがあります:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl a
ファイルに書き込むとき、オーバーライトではなく、アペンドします。
.It Fl i
シグナル
.Dv SIGINT
を無視します。通常は、すべてのシグナルを受け取ります。
.El
.Pp
以下のオペランドを使用可能です:
.Bl -tag -width file
.It Ar file
出力
.Ar file
のパス名。
.El
.Pp
.Nm
ユーティリティは、
.Fl i
オプションを指定した場合を除いては、全てのシグナルに対してデフォルトの動作を
します。
.Pp
.Nm
ユーティリティは、成功した場合は 0 を、
エラーが起きた場合は 1 以上の値を返します。
.Sh 規格
.Nm
は
.St -p1003.2
互換であると考えられています。
