.\" Copyright (c) 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)touch.1	8.3 (Berkeley) 4/28/95
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/touch/touch.1,v 1.6 1999/08/28 01:06:46 peter Exp %
.\" jpman %Id: touch.1,v 1.2 1997/04/01 05:52:35 mutoh Stab %
.\"
.Dd April 28, 1995
.Dt TOUCH 1
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm touch
.Nd ファイルのアクセス時刻と変更時刻を変える
.Sh 書式
.Nm
.Op Fl acfm
.Op Fl r Ar file
.Op Fl t Ar [[CC]YY]MMDDhhmm[.SS]
.Ar
.Sh 解説
.Nm
は、
.Ar file
で指定したファイルのアクセス時刻と変更時刻を、現
在の時刻に変えるものです。ファイルが存在しなかった場合は、デフォルトの
ファイルのパーミッションで、サイズ 0 のファイルが作成されます。
.Pp
オプションとしては以下のものがあります。
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl a
ファイルのアクセス時刻を変えます。
同時に
.Fl m
が指定されていなければ修正時刻は変えません。
.It Fl c
ファイルが存在しなかった場合のファイル作成を行いません。
.Nm
はこれをエラー扱いしません。
エラーメッセージは表示せず、
戻り値にも影響しません。
.It Fl f
ファイルのアクセス許可がない場合でも、強制的に実行します。
.It Fl m
ファイルの修正時刻を変えます。
同時に
.Fl a
が指定されていなければアクセス時刻は変えません。
.It Fl r
アクセス時刻や修正時刻を設定する際、現在時刻ではなく、
.Ar file
のアクセス時刻/修正時刻を用います。
.It Fl t
.Ar file
のアクセス時刻と変更時刻を、指定した時刻に設定します。
引数は
.Dq [[CC]YY]MMDDhhmm[.SS]
で指定します。
.Bl -tag -width Ds -compact -offset indent
.It Ar CC
西暦の千と百の位 (世紀)
.It Ar YY
西暦の十と一の位
(もし
.Dq YY
を指定して
.Dq CC
を省略した場合、
.Dq YY
が 39 から 99 の
間なら 1939年 から 1999 年が、それ以外は 21 世紀の年とみなされます)
.It Ar MM
月。1から12
.It Ar DD
日。1から31
.It Ar hh
時間。0から23
.It Ar mm
分。0から59
.It Ar SS
秒。0から61
.El
.Pp
.Dq CC
と
.Dq YY
が指定されていないと、現在の年になります。
.Dq SS
が指定されていないと、値は0となります。
.Pp
.Nm
は成功した場合は 0 を、エラーが起きた場合は 1 以上の値を返します。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr utimes 2
.Sh 互換性
旧形式、つまり、第一引数で日付の指定を行なう方式も受け付けます。
.Fl r
や
.Fl t
がない場合で、
少なくとも引数が
2 つあり、最初の引数が 10 進数の文字列で 8 文字か 10 文字の場合に、
.Dq MMDDhhmm[YY]
の形式で日付が指定されたものとみなします。
それぞれの記号の扱いは
.Fl t
オプションと同様です。
.Dq YY
が 69 から 99 の
間なら 1969 年 から 1999 年が、それ以外は 2000 年 から
2068 年とみなされます。
.Sh 歴史
.Nm
ユーティリティは
.At v7
から現れました。
.Sh 規格
.Nm
ユーティリティは
.St -p1003.2
のスーパセットです。
