.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1993, 1994
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This manual is derived from one contributed to Berkeley by
.\" Michael Rendell of Memorial University of Newfoundland.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)tsort.1	8.3 (Berkeley) 4/1/94
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/tsort/tsort.1,v 1.7 1999/08/28 01:07:00 peter Exp %
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd April 1, 1994
.Dt TSORT 1
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm tsort
.Nd 有向グラフのトポロジカルソートを行う
.Sh 書式
.Nm
.Op Fl d
.Op Fl l
.Op Fl q
.Op Ar file
.Sh 解説
.Nm
はグラフの有向アークを表現するノード名の対を列挙したもの入力とし、
トポロジカルな順序でノード名を標準出力に出力します。
入力は指定されたファイル
.Ar file
から、あるいは指定がない場合は標準入力から読み込みます。
.Pp
入力においてノード名は空白で区切ります。
ノードの数は偶数個でなければなりません。
.Pp
グラフ中のノードは
自分自身へのアークを持つノードとして記述することができます。
これはノードが他のノードと接続されていない場合に有用です。
.Pp
グラフがサイクルを含んでいる(そのままではソートできない)場合、
サイクル上の 1 つのアークを無視してソートを続行します。
サイクルは標準エラー出力に報告されます。
.Pp
オプションは以下の通り:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl d
デバッグ機能を有効にします。
.It Fl l 
最長サイクルを検索して表示します。
かなり時間がかかる場合があります。
.It Fl q
サイクルに関して詳しい情報を表示しません。
これは主としてライブラリ構築向けです。
その場合必ずしも最適な順序を求める必要はなく、
サイクルもしばしば含まれます。
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr ar 1
.Sh 歴史
.Nm
コマンドは
.At v7
で登場しました。
本
.Nm tsort
コマンドとマニュアルは Memorial University of Newfoundland の
Michael Rendell による Berkeley に提供されたコードをベースにしています。
