.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)tty.1	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/6/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/tty/tty.1,v 1.5.2.1 1999/08/29 15:34:08 peter Exp %
.\" jpman %Id: tty.1,v 1.2 1997/03/29 11:52:12 horikawa Stab %
.\"
.Dd June 6, 1993
.Dt TTY 1
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm tty
.Nd 端末名を返す
.Sh 書式
.Nm
.Op Fl s
.Sh 解説
.Nm
は、標準入力になっている端末の名前を標準出力へ出力します。この名前は、
.Xr ttyname 3
で得られる文字列です。標準入力が端末でない場合は、
``not a tty'' と出力します。
オプションとしては以下のものがあります。
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl s
端末名を表示しません。結果は終了コードだけに反映されます。ただし、この
オプションを使うよりは
.Dq Li "test -t 0"
コマンドを使ったほうがよりよいでしょう。
.El
.Pp
.Nm
は標準入力が端末だった場合は 0 を、端末でなかった場合
は 1 を、エラーが起きた場合は 2 以上の値を返します。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr test 1 ,
.Xr ttyname 3
.Sh 規格
.Nm
ユーティリティは
.St -p1003.2-92
準拠であると考えられています。
.Sh 歴史
.Nm
コマンドは
.At v1
から登場しました。
