.\" Copyright (c) 2002 Marcel Moolenaar
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/uuidgen/uuidgen.1,v 1.5 2003/05/22 13:10:32 ru Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd May 23, 2002
.Dt UUIDGEN 1
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm uuidgen
.Nd 全世界的に唯一の識別子の生成
.Sh 書式
.Nm
.Op Fl 1
.Op Fl n Ar count
.Op Fl o Ar filename
.Sh 解説
.Nm
ユーティリティは、
globally unique identifier (GUID) としても知られる
universally unique identifier (UUID; 全世界的に唯一の識別子) を
デフォルトではひとつ生成します。
UUID は、デフォルトでは標準出力へ書き込まれます。
次のオプションを使って
.Nm
の動作を変更可能です:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl 1
このオプションは複数の識別子が生成される場合のみ効果があり、
.Nm
に対し、識別子をバッチではなく 1 度に 1 個ずつ生成するよう指示します。
.It Fl n
このオプションは、生成される識別子の数を制御します。
デフォルトでは、複数の識別子がバッチで生成されます。
.It Fl o
出力を、標準出力の代りに
.Ar filename
へリダイレクトします。
.El
.Pp
バッチ生成は、密度の濃い識別子の集合を生成します。
これの意味するところは、
集合の中で最小の識別子よりも大きくかつ、
集合の中で最大の識別子よりも小さくかつ、
集合の中にまだ存在していないという条件の識別子が存在しないということです。
.Pp
1 度に 1 個の識別子を生成するときには、識別子は御互いに近付いてはいますが、
連続する識別子の距離には、
オペレーティングシステムの遅延や処理時間が反映されます。
.Sh 診断
.Ex -std
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr uuidgen 2 ,
.Xr uuid 3
.Sh 歴史
.Nm
コマンドは
.Fx 5.0
ではじめて登場しました。
