.\" Copyright (c) 1989, 1991, 1993, 1994
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)vis.1	8.4 (Berkeley) 4/19/94
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/vis/vis.1,v 1.6 1999/08/28 01:07:25 peter Exp %
.\" jpman %Id: vis.1,v 1.2 1997/05/27 00:46:26 mutoh Stab %
.\"
.Dd April 19, 1994
.Dt VIS 1
.Os BSD 4.4
.Sh 名称
.Nm vis
.Nd 表示不可能なキャラクタを、表示可能なフォーマットで出力する
.Sh 書式
.Nm
.Op Fl cbflnostw
.Op Fl F Ar foldwidth
.Op Ar
.Sh 解説
.Nm
は表示不可能なキャラクタをビジュアルに表現に変換するフィルタです。
.Ql cat -v
と異なり、変換した出力はユニークで、逆変換可能です。
デフォルトでは、空白文字、タブ、および改行 (ニューライン) を除く
表示不可能な全キャラクタがエンコードされます。エンコードのフォーマットの
詳細は、
.Xr vis 3
で与えられます。
.Pp
オプションとしては以下のものがあります。
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl b
デフォルトのエンコードは、バックスラッシュと上矢印(キャレット)
とメタキャラクタの組み合わせですが、これにバックスラッシュを入れないようにし
ます。この出力は正確ではなく、逆変換もできませんが、
入力に対して最も変更が少ない表現です。出力は、
.Dq Li cat -v
によく似たものとなります。
.It Fl c
一部の表示不可能なキャラクタに、C 言語のバックスラッシュシーケンスを
使って表示します。
.It Fl F Ar foldwidth
.Xr fold 1
同様、1 行の表示幅を
.Ar foldwidth
に収めます(デフォルトは 80桁)。ただし
.Xr fold 1
と異なり、特別な見えない改行シーケンスを用います。
この改行は
.Xr unvis 1
で元のファイルに戻す際に取り除かれます。
もしファイルの最後の文字が改行で終ってない場合には、出力に
見えない改行シーケンスを付加します。
不完全な行があるとうまく動作しない数々のエディタやユーティリティでも
正しく扱える形式の出力が得られます。
.It Fl f
.Fl F
と同じです。
.It Fl l
改行位置が見えるように、改行の前に
.Ql \e$
を挿入します。
.It Fl n
バックスラッシュの二重化と
.Fl f
もしくは
.Fl F
指定時に挿入される見えない改行シーケンス以外はエンコードしないように
します。
.Fl f
フラグと組み合わせたときの動作は、
逆変換可能な
.Xr fold 1
ユーティリティと考えることができます。
つまり、出力を
.Xr unvis 1
にかけることで fold 状態を元に戻すことができます。
.It Fl o
表示不可能なキャラクタ \eddd というように、バックスラッシュ
と8進数表現で表示します。
.It Fl s
端末に送るのが適切ではないキャラクタだけをエンコードします。
デフォルトの空白文字やタブ、改行に加え、
バックスペースやベル、復帰 (carriage return) もそのまま出力されます。
.It Fl t
タブをエンコード対象にします。
.It Fl w
空白、タブ、改行もエンコード対象にします。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr unvis 1 ,
.Xr vis 3
.Sh 歴史
.Nm
コマンドは
.Bx 4.4
から登場しました。
