.\" Copyright (c) 1989, 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)wall.1	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/6/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/wall/wall.1,v 1.11 2004/07/17 04:15:27 tjr Exp %
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd July 17, 2004
.Dt WALL 1
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm wall
.Nd ログインしているユーザにメッセージを送る
.Sh 書式
.Nm
.Op Fl g Ar group
.Op Ar file
.Sh 解説
.Nm
ユーティリティは、
デフォルトでは、標準入力の内容を現在ログインしているすべての
ユーザの端末に表示します。
.Ar file
を指定すれば、その内容が表示されます。
.Pp
スーパユーザだけが、メッセージを拒否しているユーザや
自動的にメッセージを拒否するプログラムを使っているユーザの端末にメッセージ
を送ることができます。
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl g
このグループのユーザに対しメッセージを送ります。
本オプションは複数回指定可能であり、
指定したグループのいずれかに属するユーザがメッセージを受け取ります。
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr mesg 1 ,
.Xr talk 1 ,
.Xr write 1 ,
.Xr shutdown 8
.Sh 歴史
.Nm
コマンドは
PWB UNIX
で初めて登場しました。
.Sh バグ
どの文字が端末に安全に書き出せるのかを決定するのに、(
.Nm
が知ることのできない) 受信者のではなく、送信者の
.Ev LC_CTYPE
の設定が使用されます。
.Pp
.Nm
ユーティリティは、マルチバイト文字を認識しません。
