.\" Manpage Copyright (c) 1995, Jordan Hubbard <jkh@FreeBSD.org>
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"      This product includes software developed by the FreeBSD Project
.\"      its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the FreeBSD Project nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE CONTRIBUTOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE CONTRIBUTOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/which/which.1,v 1.23 2002/06/21 06:43:48 ru Exp %
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd June 21, 2002
.Dt WHICH 1
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm which
.Nd "ユーザパスからプログラムを見つける"
.Sh 書式
.Nm
.Op Fl as
.Op Ar command
.Ar ...
.Sh 解説
.Nm
ユーティリティは、コマンド名のリストを受け取り、
実際に起動したならば実行できる実行形式ファイルを探します。
.Pp
オプションには以下のものがあります:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl a
(最初に見つけたものだけでなく) みつけたすべての実行形式を表示します。
.It Fl s
実行形式が見つかれば 0 を返し、見つからなければ 1 を返します。
表示はしません。
.El
.Pp
シェルによっては、本ユーティリティと似たまたは同じ、組み込みの
.Nm
コマンドを提供しているものがあります。
.Xr builtin 1
マニュアルページを参照してください。
.Sh 歴史
.Nm
コマンドは
.Fx 2.1
から登場しました。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr builtin 1 ,
.Xr csh 1 ,
.Xr find 1 ,
.Xr locate 1 ,
.Xr whereis 1
.Sh 作者
.Nm
ユーティリティは元々
.An Wolfram Schneider Aq wosch@FreeBSD.org
が Perl で書き、提供しました。
現在のバージョンの
.Nm
は
.An Daniel Papasian Aq dpapasia@andrew.cmu.edu
が C で書き直したものです。
