.\" Copyright (c) 1986, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)who.1	8.2 (Berkeley) 12/30/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/who/who.1,v 1.7.2.2 2001/07/02 00:37:53 dd Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD: doc/ja_JP.eucJP/man/man1/who.1,v 1.7 2001/05/14 01:07:30 horikawa Exp $
.\"
.Dd December 30, 1993
.Dt WHO 1
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm who
.Nd 誰がログインしているかを表示する
.Sh 書式
.Nm
.Ar am I
.Nm
.Sh 解説
.Nm
ユーティリティは、現在ログインしている全ユーザについて、ユーザごとに
ログイン名、端末名、ログインした日時、ホスト名 (リモートログイン
しているときのみ) を表示します。
.Pp
オプションは以下の通りです:
.Bl -tag -width file
.It Ar \&am I
このコマンドを起動したユーザの本当のユーザ名 (real user name) を表示します。
.It Ar file
.Nm
はデフォルトで
.Pa /var/run/utmp
を調べますが、
.Ar file
が指定された場合、そのファイルからユーザ情報を得るようにします。
.Ar file
には、普通、
.Pa /var/log/wtmp
を指定します (あるいは、サイトの方針次第ですが、
.Pa /var/log/wtmp.[0-6]
であるかもしれません。というのも、
.Pa wtmp
ファイルは大変大きくなるかもしれないので、
.Xr ac 8
によって圧縮した後には、
日毎のファイルを保存していない場合もあるからです)。
.Pa wtmp
には、最後に
.Pa wtmp
を作成するか、またはそのファイルサイズをゼロにして以来の
全てのログイン、ログアウト、クラッシュ、シャットダウン、および
date コマンドでの日時の変更が記録されています。
.El
.Pp
.Pa /var/log/wtmp
ファイルが記録ファイルとして使用されている場合には、
ユーザ名は空、あるいは特殊文字 '|', '}', '~' のうちの
ひとつであるかもしれません。その際には、ログアウトすることで、ユーザ名
が記録されていない出力行を生成します。より詳しくは、
.Xr utmp 5
を参照してください。
.Sh 関連ファイル
.Bl -tag -width /var/log/wtmp.[0-6] -compact
.It Pa /var/run/utmp
.It Pa /var/log/wtmp
.It Pa /var/log/wtmp.[0-6]
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr last 1 ,
.Xr users 1 ,
.Xr getuid 2 ,
.Xr utmp 5
.Sh 歴史
.Nm
ユーティリティは
.At v1
から登場しました。
