.\" Copyright (c) 1989, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" Jef Poskanzer and Craig Leres of the Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)write.1	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/6/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/write/write.1,v 1.7.2.1 2000/12/08 15:14:18 ru Exp %
.\" jpman %Id: write.1,v 1.3 1997/05/19 16:54:42 horikawa Stab %
.\"
.Dd June 6, 1993
.Dt WRITE 1
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm write
.Nd 別のユーザにメッセージを送る
.Sh 書式
.Nm
.Ar user
.Op Ar ttyname
.Sh 解説
.Nm
は、あなたの端末入力行を他の端末に送ることで、
他のユーザとのコミュニケーションを可能にします。
.Pp
.Nm
を使ってメッセージを書くと、指定されたユーザは次のような
書き出しで始まるメッセージを受け取ります:
.Pp
.Dl Message from yourname@yourhost on yourtty at hh:mm ...
.Pp
この後の行は、1行入力するたびにその内容が相手の端末にコピーされます。
もし相手が返事をしたいと思ったら、その人も
.Nm
を実行して同じようにメッセージを送る必要があります。
.Pp
メッセージを送り終わったら、ファイルの終り文字か割り込み文字を入力します。
相手には、通信の終りを表す
.Ql EOF
が表示されます。
.Pp
他のユーザからのメッセージを拒否したいときは
(ただしスーパユーザからのメッセージは拒否できません)、
.Xr mesg 1
を使います。
.Pp
2つ以上の端末にログインしているユーザにメッセージを送りたい場合には、
どの端末にメッセージを送るかを、
.Nm
の2番目の引数で指定することができます。
端末名を指定しなければ、もっともアイドル時間の短い端末が選択されます。
事務所でログインしたままになっているユーザが、今は自宅からモデムでログイン
している場合などは、これによって正しい端末が選択されるでしょう。
.Pp
.Nm
コマンドで人とやりとりする時には、次のようなプロトコルが使われてきました。
行末の
.Ql \-o
や、
.Ql \-o
だけの行は、あなたが話す番ですよ、という意味であり、
.Ql oo
は、会話を終りにしましょうという意味になります。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr mesg 1 ,
.Xr talk 1 ,
.Xr who 1
.Sh 歴史
.Nm
コマンドは
.At v1
から登場しました。
