.\" Copyright (c) 1992, 1993 Eugene W. Stark
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by Eugene W. Stark.
.\" 4. The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote products
.\"    derived from this software without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY EUGENE W. STARK (THE AUTHOR) ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT,
.\" INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
.\" (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
.\" SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.sbin/xten/xten.1,v 1.9.2.2 2001/03/06 14:21:47 ru Exp %
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd October 30, 1993
.Dt XTEN 1
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm xten
.Nd X-10 コマンドを転送する
.Sh 書式
.Nm
.Op Fl ""
.Ar house
.Ar key Ns Op : Ns Ar cnt
.Oo
.Op Ar house
.Ar key Ns Op : Ns Ar cnt
.Ar ...
.Oc
.Sh 解説
.Nm
は、 X-10 デーモンへのコマンドラインインタフェースです。
一文字のハウスコード (A-P) と一連のキー/ユニットコードが引数として
与えられて呼び出された時、X-10 デーモンへ対応する一連の X-10
パケットの転送を要求します。
コマンドが実際に受け取られて実行されるかどうかをリモートの X-10 デバイスによって
知ることは一般的にできませんが、X-10 デーモンは、パケットがすべて正しく転送されるように、
最大限努力します。
.Pp
一つの引数
.Fl
付きで呼び出された時は、
.Nm
は、インタラクティブモードに入ります。ここでは、標準入力を繰り返し
読み込み、X-10 デーモンに送り、デーモンからの一行の応答が標準出力に表示されます。
.Sh オプション
ハウス(
.Ar house
)引数は、 A-P の範囲の一文字のハウスコードです。
全ての X-10 リクエストは、ハウスコードを参照します。
各キー(
.Ar key
)は 1-16 の数値コードか、X-10 機能を指定する文字列です。
可能な機能コード文字列は以下の通りです。
.Bl -diag
.It AllUnitsOff
.It AllLightsOn
.It On
.It Off
.It Dim
.It Bright
.It AllLightsOff
.It ExtendedCode
.It HailRequest
.It HailAcknowledge
.It PreSetDim0
.It PreSetDim1
.It ExtendedData
.It StatusOn
.It StatusOff
.It StatusRequest
.El
.Pp
各キー(
.Ar key
)にはオプションの数字(
.Ar cnt
)が続きます。この数字は、間隙がないキーコード
によっておくられるパケットの数を指定します。
この引数が省略された時、二つのパケットが転送されます。
X-10 の
.Em Dim
と
.Em Bright
コマンドでは、二つ以外のパケット数を指定して使うことができます。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr tw 4 ,
.Xr xtend 8
.Sh 関連ファイル
.Bl -tag -width /var/spool/xten/Status -compact
.It Pa /dev/tw0
TW523 スペシャルファイル
.El
.Sh 作者
.An Eugene W. Stark Aq stark@cs.sunysb.edu
