.\" Copyright (c) 1993 Winning Strategies, Inc.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"      This product includes software developed by Winning Strategies, Inc.
.\" 4. The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote products
.\"    derived from this software without specific prior written permission
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/ypmatch/ypmatch.1,v 1.8.2.1 2000/12/08 15:14:24 ru Exp %
.\" jpman %Id: ypmatch.1,v 1.3 1997/06/12 15:46:11 kubo Stab %
.\"
.Dd December 3, 1993
.Dt YPMATCH 1
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm ypmatch
.Nd "YP データベースのキーの値を表示する"
.Sh 書式
.Nm
.Op Fl kt
.Op Fl d Ar domainname
.Ar key ...
.Ar mapname
.Nm
.Fl x
.Sh 解説
.Nm
は、
.Ar mapname
(マップの名前またはニックネーム) で指定された
.Tn YP
データベースを、
指定された 1 つまたは複数のキーで検索し、キーに対応する値を表示します。
.Pp
オプションは以下のとおりです:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl d Ar domainname
デフォルトとは異なったドメイン名を用いたいときに指定します。
.It Fl k
指定したマップのキーも表示します。値が空のマップや、値にキーが含ま
れていないマップの内容を表示するのに便利です。
.It Fl t
マップのニックネームを、対応したマップ名に変換することを禁止します。
.It Fl x
マップのニックネームテーブルを表示します。
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr domainname 1 ,
.Xr ypcat 1 ,
.Xr yp 4 ,
.Xr ypbind 8 ,
.Xr ypset 8
.Sh 作者
.An Theo De Raadt Aq deraadt@theos.com .
