.\"	%NetBSD: ypwhich.1,v 1.3 1996/05/13 02:43:46 thorpej Exp %
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1994 Christopher G. Demetriou
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"      This product includes software developed by Christopher G. Demetriou.
.\" 3. The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote products
.\"    derived from this software without specific prior written permission
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/ypwhich/ypwhich.1,v 1.3.2.1 1999/08/29 15:35:21 peter Exp %
.\"
.Dd February 23, 1994
.Dt YPWHICH 1
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm ypwhich
.Nd YP サーバのホスト名、もしくはマップのマスタを表示する
.Sh 書式
.Nm ypwhich
.Op Fl d Ar domain
.Oo
.Op Fl t
.Fl m Op Ar mname
|
.Ar host
.Oc
.Nm ypwhich 
.Fl x
.Sh 解説
.Nm 
はどの
.Tn YP
サーバが
.Tn YP
サービスをクライアントに提供しているか、または、どれがマップのマスタ
なのかを、知らせます。
引数なしで用いられると、ローカルマシンの
.Tn YP
サーバを返します。
.Ar host
を指定した場合には、どの
.Tn YP
サーバを使っているのか、指定したマシンに問合せます。
.Pp
オプションには以下のものが有ります:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl d Ar domain
デフォルトのドメインの代わりに
.Ar domain
を使用します。
.It Fl t
ニックネームを対応するマップネームに展開するのを抑制します。
.It Fl m Op Ar mname
指定したマップの
.Tn YP
サーバを探します。
.Fl m
オプションでは、
.Ar host
は指定できません。
.Ar mname
は、マップネームでもニックネームでもかまいません。もし
.Ar mname
が省略されていると、
.Nm 
は、利用できるマップのリストを作成します。
.It Fl x
マップのニックネームのテーブルを表示します。
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr domainname 1 ,
.Xr ypcat 1 ,
.Xr ypmatch 1 ,
.Xr yp 4 ,
.Xr ypbind 8 ,
.Xr yppoll 8 ,
.Xr ypset 8
.Sh 作者
.An Theo De Raadt
