.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1991 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)yyfix.1	5.4 (Berkeley) 3/23/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/yacc/yyfix.1,v 1.2.2.1 1999/08/29 15:35:12 peter Exp %
.\" jpman %Id: yyfix.1,v 1.3 1997/06/12 14:39:52 kubo Stab %
.\"
.Dd March 23, 1993
.Dt YYFIX 1
.Os BSD 4.4
.Sh 名称
.Nm yyfix
.Nd y.tab.c ファイルからテーブルを取り出す
.Sh 書式
.Nm yyfix
.Ar file
.Op Ar tables
.Sh 解説
歴史的には、
.Xr yacc 1
が生成したファイル
.Pa y.tab.c
からテーブルを取り出すために、
あるスクリプト (大抵は
.Dq :yyfix
という名前のもの) が用いられてきました。
現在のバージョンの
.Xr yacc
が生成するテーブル名は、これまでのバージョンの
.Xr yacc
が生成するものと異なるので、
この変換を簡単にするためにシェルスクリプト
.Nm
が提供されています。
.Pp
.Nm
の最初の (そして必須の) 引数は、
取り出したテーブルを格納するファイルの名前です。
.Pp
コマンドライン引数が更に指定された場合、
それらは取り出すテーブルのリストと解釈されます。
それ以外の場合、
.Nm
はファイル
.Pa y.tab.c
が新旧いずれの
.Xr yacc
から生成されたものかを判定し、
適切なテーブルを取り出そうとします。
.Pp
以前の
.Xr yacc
から取り出されるテーブルは次の通りです:
.Dq yyexca ,
.Dq yyact ,
.Dq yypact ,
.Dq yypgo ,
.Dq yyr1 ,
.Dq yyr2 ,
.Dq yychk ,
.Dq yydef
.Pp
現バージョンの
.Xr yacc
から取り出されるテーブルは次の通りです:
.Dq yylhs ,
.Dq yylen ,
.Dq yydefred ,
.Dq yydgoto ,
.Dq yysindex ,
.Dq yyrindex ,
.Dq yygindex ,
.Dq yytable ,
.Dq yyname ,
.Dq yyrule ,
.Dq yycheck
.Sh 関連ファイル
.Bl -tag -width y.tab.c
.It Pa y.tab.c
テーブルを取り出す元となるファイル
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr yacc 1
.Sh 歴史
.Nm
コマンドは
.Bx 4.4
から登場しました。 
