.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)alloca.3	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\"
.Dd June 4, 1993
.Dt ALLOCA 3
.Os BSD 4
.Sh 名称
.Nm alloca
.Nd メモリ割り当て関数
.Sh 書式
.Fd #include <stdlib.h>
.Ft void *
.Fn alloca "size_t size"
.Sh 解説
.Fn alloca
関数は、呼び出し元のスタックフレーム内に
.Fa size
バイトの空き領域を割り当てます。
この一時的な空間は、関数から戻るときに自動的に解放されます。
.Sh 戻り値
.Fn alloca
関数は、割り当てられた空間の先頭を指すポインタを返します。割り当て
処理に失敗した場合は、
.Dv NULL
ポインタが返されます。
.Pp
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr brk 2 ,
.Xr calloc 3 ,
.Xr getpagesize 3 ,
.Xr malloc 3 ,
.Xr realloc 3
.Sh バグ
.Fn alloca
関数はマシン依存です。これを使用することはお勧めできません。
.\" .Sh HISTORY
.\"
.\" The
.\" .Fn alloca
.\" function appeared in
.\" .Bx ?? .
.\" The function appeared in 32v, pwb and pwb.2 and in 3bsd 4bsd
.\" The first man page (or link to a man page that I can find at the
.\" moment is 4.3...
.\" kuma
