.\" $OpenBSD: arc4random.3,v 1.2 1997/04/27 22:40:25 angelos Exp $
.\" Copyright 1997 Niels Provos <provos@physnet.uni-hamburg.de>
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"      This product includes software developed by Niels Provos.
.\" 4. The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote products
.\"    derived from this software without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" Manual page, using -mandoc macros
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd April 15, 1997
.Dt ARC4RANDOM 3
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm arc4random,
.Nm arc4random_stir,
.Nm arc4random_addrandom
.Nd arc4 乱数ジェネレータ
.Sh 書式
.Fd #include <stdlib.h>
.Ft u_int32_t
.Fn arc4random "void"
.Ft void
.Fn arc4random_stir "void"
.Ft void
.Fn arc4random_addrandom "unsigned char *dat" "int datlen"
.Sh 解説
.Fn arc4random
関数は、arc4 暗号が採用しているキーストリームジェネレータを
使用します。arc4 暗号は、8*8 の 8 ビット S-Box を使用します。
S-Box は約
.if t 2 2\u\s71700\s10\d
.if n (2**1700)
個の状態を取ることができます。
.Pp
.Fn arc4random_stir
関数は、
.Pa /dev/urandom
からデータを読み取り、それを使用して
.Fn arc4random_addrandom
によって S-Box の順序を変えます。
.Pp
.Fn arc4random
を使用する前に
.Fn arc4random_stir
を呼び出す必要はありません。
.Fn arc4random
は自動的に自分自身を初期化するからです。
.Pp
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr rand 3 ,
.Xr random 3 ,
.Xr srandomdev 3
.Sh 歴史
.Pa RC4
は、RSA Data Security, Inc. によって設計されました。
.Pa RC4
は、匿名で USENET にポストされ、オリジナルのコードにアクセスした人の
いくつかのソースによって同等であることが確認されました。
.Pa RC4
は企業機密であったので、この暗号は
.Pa ARC4
と呼ばれています。
.\" kuma
