.\" Copyright (c) 1985, 1991 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     from: @(#)atanh.3	5.2 (Berkeley) 5/6/91
.\"	$Id: atanh.3,v 1.1.1.1 1999-12-09 16:26:08 kuriyama Exp $
.\"
.Dd May 6, 1991
.Dt ATANH 3
.Os BSD 4.3
.Sh 名称
.Nm atanh ,
.Nm atanhf
.Nd 逆双曲正接関数
.Sh 書式
.Fd #include <math.h>
.Ft double
.Fn atanh "double x"
.Ft float
.Fn atanhf "float x"
.Sh 解説
.Fn atanh
関数と
.Fn atanhf
関数は、実数引数
.Ar x
の逆双曲正接を計算します。切り捨て丸めによるエラーの詳細については、
.Xr math 3
を参照してください。
.Sh 戻り値
.Fn atanh
関数と
.Fn atanhf
関数は、処理が成功した場合、
.Ar x
の逆双曲正接を
返します。
.Tn VAX
と
.Tn Tahoe
で、引数の絶対値が
1 より大きいかまたは
1 に等しい
場合、
.Fn atanh
がグローバル変数
.Va errno
を
.Er EDOM
に設定し、予約済みオペランドエラーが生成されます。
.Pp
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr acosh 3 ,
.Xr asinh 3 ,
.Xr exp 3 ,
.Xr math 3
.Pp
.Sh 歴史
.Fn atanh
関数は
.Bx 4.3
で現れました。
.\" kuma
