.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" Chris Torek.
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)bcmp.3	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd June 4, 1993
.Dt BCMP 3
.Os BSD 4.2
.Sh 名称
.Nm bcmp
.Nd バイト文字列を比較する
.Sh 書式
.Fd #include <string.h>
.Ft int
.Fn bcmp "const void *b1" "const void *b2" "size_t len"
.Sh 解説
.Fn bcmp
関数は、バイト文字列
.Fa b1
をバイト文字列
.Fa b2
に対して比較し、
これらが同一の場合は
0 を返し、そうでない場合はゼロでない値を返します。
両方の文字列が
.Fa len
バイトの長さであると想定して比較します。長さがゼロの
文字列は必ず同一です。
.Pp
2つの文字列が重なりあっていても構いません。
.Pp
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr bcmp 3 ,
.Xr memcmp 3 ,
.Xr strcasecmp 3 ,
.Xr strcmp 3 ,
.Xr strcoll 3 ,
.Xr strxfrm 3
.Pp
.Sh 歴史
.Fn bcmp
関数は最初に
.Bx 4.2
で現れました。
.\" kuma
