.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1991, 1993, 1994
.\"     The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" the American National Standards Committee X3, on Information
.\" Processing Systems.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"     This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"     California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)bsearch.3   8.3 (Berkeley) 4/19/94
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/stdlib/bsearch.3,v 1.4.2.4 2001/12/14 18:33:58 ru Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd April 19, 1994
.Dt BSEARCH 3
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm bsearch
.Nd ソート済みの表に対するバイナリ探索
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.In stdlib.h
.Ft void *
.Fn bsearch "const void *key" "const void *base" "size_t nmemb" "size_t size" "int (*compar) (const void *, const void *)"
.Sh 解説
.Fn bsearch
関数は、最初のメンバが
.Fa base
によって示されている
.Fa nmemb
個のオブジェクトの配列の中から
.Fa key
が指すオブジェクトに一致するメンバを探します。
配列の各メンバのサイズは
.Fa size
で指定されます。
.Pp
配列の内容は、
.Fa compar
が参照する比較関数に従って昇順にソートされた状態でなければなりません。
.Fa compar
ルーチンは
.Fa key
オブジェクト
と配列メンバを指す 2 つの引数をこの順序でとることが期待されており、
.Fa key
オブジェクトが配列メンバより小さい、一致する、またはより大きいことが
検出された場合、それぞれ 0 より小さい整数、0、0 より大きい整数を返します。
.Sh 戻り値
.Fn bsearch
関数は、配列の一致したメンバへのポインタを返します。
一致したメンバが見つからなかった場合は、ヌルポインタを返します。
もし 2 つのメンバが比較の対象として等しい場合、
どちらのメンバが一致したかは不定となります。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr db 3 ,
.Xr lsearch 3 ,
.Xr qsort 3
.\" .Xr tsearch 3
.Sh 規格
.Fn bsearch
関数は
.St -isoC
に適合しています。
