.\" Copyright (c) 1994 Winning Strategies, Inc.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"      This product includes software developed by Winning Strategies, Inc.
.\" 4. The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote products
.\"    derived from this software without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/nls/catgets.3,v 1.7.2.4 2001/12/14 18:33:56 ru Exp %
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd May 29, 1994
.Dt CATGETS 3
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm catgets
.Nd メッセージカタログからの文字列の取り出し
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.In nl_types.h
.Ft char *
.Fn catgets "nl_catd catd" "int set_id" "int msg_id" "const char *s"
.Sh 解説
.Fn catgets 
関数は、記述子
.Fa catd
によって参照されたメッセージカタログの、セット
.Fa set_id
のメッセージ
.Fa msg_id
の取り出しを試みます。
引数
.Fa s
は、この関数が指定されたメッセージを取り出せない場合に返される、
デフォルトメッセージを指しています。
.Sh 戻り値
指定されたメッセージが成功裏に取り出された場合には、
.Fn catgets
はそのメッセージ文字列が入った内部バッファへのポインタを返します。
そうでない場合には、
.Fa s
を返します。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr gencat 1 ,
.Xr catclose 3 ,
.Xr catopen 3
.Sh 規格
.Fn catgets
関数は、
.St -xpg4
に適合しています。
