.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 1994, 1995 Joerg Wunsch
.\" 
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software.
.\" 
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\" This product includes software developed by Joerg Wunsch
.\" 4. The name of the developer may not be used to endorse or promote
.\"    products derived from this software without specific prior written
.\"    permission.
.\" 
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE DEVELOPERS ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE DEVELOPERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" 
.\" 
.\" $Id: cftime.3,v 1.1.1.1 1999-12-09 16:26:07 kuriyama Exp $
.\"
.Dd June 15, 1993
.Os
.Dt CFTIME 3
.Sh 名称
.Nm cftime
.Nm ascftime
.Nd 日付と時刻の文字列への変換
.Sh 書式
.Fd #include <time.h>
.Ft int
.Fn cftime "char *s" "char *format" "const time_t *clock"
.Ft int
.Fn ascftime "char *s" "const char *format" "const struct tm *tmptr"
.Sh 解説
.Bf -symbolic
.Nm cftime
関数と
.Nm ascftime
関数は、strftime(3) によって旧式なものとなっています。
これらは互換性ライブラリ libcompat により利用できます。
.Ef
.Pp
関数
.Nm cftime
および
.Nm ascftime
はできるだけ使用しないでください。
バッファのオーバーフロー状態をチェックする方法がないからです。代わりに
.Xr strftime 3
を使用してください。

.Nm ascftime
は
.Xr strftime 3
とほとんど同じです。ただし、最大バッファ長を指定するパラメータがないことと、
.Em NULL
ポインタが指定されると
.Fa format
パラメータがデフォルトで
.Dq %C
になるという点だけは異なります。

.Nm cftime
は同じ処理を行ないますが、指定された
.Fa clock
を変換するために最初に
.Xr localtime 3
を起動してから、
.Fa format
引数で要求されているような変換を実行します。

.Sh 戻り値
.Nm cftime
関数と
.Nm ascftime
関数は、出力バッファ
.Fa s
に書き込まれた文字数を返します。その場合、末尾のヌル文字は数えません。

.Sh 関連項目
.Xr localtime 3 ,
.Xr strftime 3
