.\" Copyright (c) 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)confstr.3	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\"
.Dd June 4, 1993
.Dt CONFSTR 3
.Os BSD 4
.Sh 名称
.Nm confstr
.Nd ストリング値の環境設定可能な変数を得る
.Sh 書式
.Fd #include <unistd.h>
.Ft size_t
.Fn confstr "int name" "char *buf" "size_t len"
.Sh 解説
.Bf -symbolic
このインタフェースは、
.Xr sysctl 3
によって旧式になっています。
.Ef
.Pp
.Fn confstr
関数は、環境設定で定義したストリング値をアプリケーションが
得るための方式を提供します。
.Pp
.Fa name
引数は、照会されるシステム変数を指定します。各名前の値の
シンボリック定数は、インクルードファイル
.Li <unistd.h>
の中にあります。
.Fa len
引数は、引数
.Fa buf
が参照するバッファのサイズを指定します。
.Fa len
がゼロでない
場合、
.Fa buf
は
NULL
でないポインタであり、
.Fa name
には、最高
.Fa len
\- 1
バイトの
値があり、値はバッファ
.Fa buf
にコピーされます。コピーされた値の末尾は必ず
NULL
です。
.Pp
利用可能な値は次のとおりです。
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width "123456"
.Pp
.It Li _CS_PATH
全標準ユーティリティを検出する
.Ev PATH
環境設定変数の値を返します。
.El
.Sh 戻り値
.Fn confstr
の呼び出しが正常に完了しない場合、
\-1 が返され、該当する
.Va errno
が
設定されます。そうでない場合、変数に環境設定定義された値がない場合、
0 が
返され、
.Va errno
は修正されません。そうでない場合は、環境設定定義された
値全体を入れるのに必要なバッファサイズが返されます。このサイズが引数
.Fa len
より大きい場合、
.Fa buf
内のストリングは切り捨てされます。
.Sh エラー
.Fn confstr
関数は、処理が正常に完了せず、ライブラリ関数
.Xr malloc 3
と
.Xr sysctl 3
用に指定されたエラーについて
.Va error
を設定することがあります。
.Pp
さらに、次のエラーがレポートされることがあります。
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EINVAL
.Fa name
引数の値は無効です。
.Pp
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr sysctl 3
.Sh 歴史
.Fn confstr
関数は
.Bx 4.4
で最初に現れました。
