.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1991, 1993
.\"     The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"     This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"     California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)ctermid.3   8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/gen/ctermid.3,v 1.5.2.3 2001/12/14 18:33:50 ru Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd June 4, 1993
.Dt CTERMID 3
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm ctermid
.Nd 端末パス名を生成する
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.In stdio.h
.Ft char *
.Fn ctermid "char *buf"
.Ft char *
.Fn ctermid_r "char *buf"
.Sh 解説
.Fn ctermid
関数は、パス名として使用されたときに、呼び出し元プロセスの現在の
制御端末を参照する文字列を生成します。
.Pp
.Ar buf
が
.Dv NULL
ポインタの場合、静的領域を指すポインタが返されます。
そうでない場合は、パス名が、
.Ar buf
で参照されるメモリにコピーされます。
引数
.Ar buf
は、長さが少なくとも
.Dv L_ctermid
(インクルードファイル
.Aq Pa stdio.h
に定義) バイトと仮定されます。
.Pp
.Fn ctermid_r
は、
.Ar buf
が
.Dv NULL
ポインタであった場合に
.Dv NULL
を返すこと以外は、
.Fn ctermid
と同じ機能を提供します。
.Pp
現在の実装では単に
.Ql /dev/tty
を返します。
.Sh 戻り値
処理が成功すると、
.Dv NULL
でないポインタが返されます。
処理が失敗すると、
.Dv NULL
ポインタが返され、グローバル変数
.Va errno
がエラーを示すように設定されます。
.Sh エラー
現在の実装では、検出されるエラー条件はありません。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr ttyname 3
.Sh 規格
.Fn ctermid
関数は、
.St -p1003.1-88
に適合しています。
.Sh バグ
デフォルトでは、
.Fn ctermid
関数は、すべての情報を内部の静的オブジェクトに書き込みます。
後で
.Fn ctermid
を呼ぶと、同じオブジェクトが修正されます。
