.\" Copyright (c) 1993
.\"     The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"     This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"     California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)devname.3   8.2 (Berkeley) 4/29/95
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/gen/devname.3,v 1.7.2.5 2002/04/04 06:50:06 dd Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd July 18, 1999
.Dt DEVNAME 3
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm devname
.Nd デバイス名を得る
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.In sys/stat.h
.In stdlib.h
.Ft char *
.Fn devname "dev_t dev" "mode_t type"
.Sh 解説
.Fn devname
関数は、デバイス番号
.Fa dev
と、
.Dv S_IFBLK
または
.Dv S_IFCHR
のどちらかがエンコードされている
.Fa type
に一致するファイルタイプとを持つ、
.Pa /dev
下のブロックデバイスまたはキャラクタデバイスの名前を指すポインタを返します。
正しい名前を見つけるために、
.Fn devname
は、まず
.Xr dev_mkdb 8
によって作成されたデバイスデータベースを検索します。
それに失敗した場合、
.Va kern.devname
sysctl を用いてカーネルに問い合わせます。
それでも適切な名前が作り出せなかった時には、
.Fa dev
と
.Fa type
に込められている情報を、人が読める形式にフォーマットします。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr stat 2 ,
.Xr dev_mkdb 8
.Sh 歴史
.Fn devname
関数は
.Bx 4.4
で登場しました。
.Sh バグ
.Fn devname
関数は、内部の静的オブジェクトへのポインタを返します。
従って、その後の呼び出しは同一のバッファを修正してしまいます。
