.\" Copyright (c) 1986
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)end.3	6.4 (Berkeley) 1/24/94
.\" %FreeBSD: src/share/man/man3/end.3,v 1.3.2.3 2001/01/12 16:16:01 ru Exp %
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd August 28, 2000
.Dt END 3
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm end ,
.Nm etext ,
.Nm edata
.Nd イメージセグメントの終了境界
.Sh 書式
.Vt extern end ;
.Vt extern etext ;
.Vt extern edata ;
.Sh 解説
グローバル
.Va end , extext
および
.Va edata
はプログラムセグメントの末尾アドレスです。
.Pp
.Va etext
は、テキストセグメントの末尾に続く最初アドレスです。
.Pp
.Va edata
は、初期化済みデータセグメントの末尾に続く最初アドレスです。
.Pp
.Va end
は、プログラムロード時に、データセグメント
.Pq Tn BSS
の末尾に続く最初のアドレスです。
.Xr sbrk 2
.\".Fn sbrk 0
システムコールを 0 を引数として実行すると、
現在のデータセグメントの末尾が得られます。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr sbrk 2 ,
.Xr malloc 3 ,
.Xr a.out 4
.Sh 歴史
.Nm
マニュアルは
.At v6
で登場しました。
.Sh バグ
伝統的には、テキストセグメントの先頭を指す変数は存在しませんでした。
なぜなら、テキストセグメントは常にアドレス 0 から開始したからです。
この仮定は現在ではもう正しくありません。
テキストセグメントの先頭を指す、前述のような変数は、存在しません。
