.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" the American National Standards Committee X3, on Information
.\" Processing Systems.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)exit.3	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd June 4, 1993
.Dt EXIT 3
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm exit
.Nd 正常なプログラム終了を実行する
.Sh 書式
.Fd #include <stdlib.h>
.Ft void
.Fn exit "int status"
.Sh 解説
.Fn Exit
はプロセスを終了させます。
.Pp
終了の前に、リストした順に次の機能を実行します。
.Bl -enum -offset indent
.It
.Xr atexit 3
関数で登録された関数を呼び出します。登録とは逆の順序でです。
.It
開いているすべての出力ストリームをフラッシュします。
.It
開いているすべてのストリームを閉じます。
.It
.Xr tmpfile 3
関数で作成されたすべてのファイルのリンクを解除します。
.El
.Pp
任意の値を
.Ar status
として環境に渡すのは、まずいスタイルと考えられました。代わりに、
.Xr sysexits 3
で記述したように値を使用します。
.Sh 戻り値
.Fn exit
関数は戻ることはありません。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr _exit 2 ,
.Xr atexit 3 ,
.Xr intro 3 ,
.Xr sysexits 3 ,
.Xr tmpfile 3
.Sh 規格
.Fn exit
関数は
.St -ansiC
に準拠しています。
