.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" Chris Torek and the American National Standards Committee X3,
.\" on Information Processing Systems.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)fclose.3	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/stdio/fclose.3,v 1.7.2.4 2001/12/14 18:33:57 ru Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd June 4, 1993
.Dt FCLOSE 3
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm fclose
.Nd ストリームを閉じる
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.In stdio.h
.Ft int
.Fn fclose "FILE *stream"
.Sh 解説
.Fn fclose
関数は、基礎となるファイルや関数のセットから、指定された
.Fa ストリーム
を分離します。
ストリームを出力に使用している場合は、
まず最初に、
.Xr fflush 3
を使用して、バッファにあるデータを書込みます。
.Sh 戻り値
正常終了すると 0 が返されます。
正常終了しなかった場合は
.Dv EOF
が返され、
グローバル変数
.Va errno
には、エラーを示す値が設定されます。
どちらの場合でも、ストリームには
それ以上アクセスできません。
.Sh エラー
.Fn fclose
関数がエラーなると、
ルーチン
.Xr close 2
か
.Xr fflush 3
で指定されたエラーが
.Va errno
に設定されます。
.Sh 注
.Fn fclose
は NULL 引数を処理しません。
NULL 引数はセグメンテーション違反を引き起こします。
この動作は意図的なもので、
.Fx
で作成されたプログラムのバグをなくすためです。
この動作は実装に関わるものであり、
プログラムが依存すべきではありません。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr close 2 ,
.Xr fflush 3 ,
.Xr fopen 3 ,
.Xr setbuf 3
.Sh 規格
.Fn fclose
関数は、
.St -isoC
に適合しています。
