.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" Chris Torek and the American National Standards Committee X3,
.\" on Information Processing Systems.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)fflush.3	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/stdio/fflush.3,v 1.4.2.4 2001/12/14 18:33:57 ru Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd June 4, 1993
.Dt FFLUSH 3
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm fflush ,
.Nm fpurge
.Nd ストリームのフラッシュ
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.In stdio.h
.Ft int
.Fn fflush "FILE *stream"
.Ft int
.Fn fpurge "FILE *stream"
.Sh 解説
.Fn fflush
関数は、すべてのバッファされたデータを対応する
出力に強制的に書込みます。
またはストリームの場合は、下層の書込み関数を用いて
.Fa stream
の更新を強制的に実行します。
.\" underlying 下層
ストリームは開いた状態のままで、この関数によって影響は受けません。
.\" status ステータス？
.Pp
.Fa stream
引数が
.Dv NULL
の場合、
.Fn fflush
は開いている
.Em すべての
出力ストリームをフラッシュします。
.Pp
.Fn fpurge
関数は、指定された
.Fa stream
のバッファに入っているどんな入出力も消去します。
出力ストリームの場合は、書込まれていない出力を破棄します。
入力ストリームの場合は、下層オブジェクトから読込んであり、
.Xr getc 3
で取り出されていない入力を破棄します。
これには、
.Xr ungetc
でプッシュバックされたテキストも含まれます。
.Sh 戻り値
処理が正常に完了すると、値 0 が返されます。
そうでない場合は
.Dv EOF
が戻され、エラーを示すためにグローバル変数
.Va errno
が設定されます。
.Sh エラー
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EBADF
.Fa stream
が開いているストリームではありません。
.Fn fflush
の場合、ストリームが書込み用に開いていません。
.El
.Pp
.Fn fflush
関数がエラーになると、ルーチン
.Xr write 2
で指定されたエラーが
.Va errno
に設定されます。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr write 2 ,
.Xr fclose 3 ,
.Xr fopen 3 ,
.Xr setbuf 3
.Sh 規格
.Fn fflush
関数は、
.St -isoC
に適合しています。
