.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1991, 1993
.\"     The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"     This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"     California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)fgetln.3    8.3 (Berkeley) 4/19/94
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/stdio/fgetln.3,v 1.4.2.3 2001/12/14 18:33:57 ru Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.\" WORD: error indicator   エラー表示子 [JIS C]
.Dd April 19, 1994
.Dt FGETLN 3
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm fgetln
.Nd ストリームから行を取得
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.In stdio.h
.Ft char *
.Fn fgetln "FILE *stream" "size_t *len"
.Sh 解説
.Fn fgetln
関数は、
.Fa stream
が参照するストリームから次の行のポインタを戻します。
取得した行は、
.Dv NUL
文字で終端されていませんので、C 言語での文字列では
.Em ありません。
最後の改行も含めた行の長さは、
.Fa len
が指すメモリ位置に保存されます
(ただし、改行で終わらないファイルの最後に行がある場合、
戻されるテキストに改行は含まれません)。
.Sh 戻り値
正常終了すると、ポインタが戻されます。
このポインタは、次に
.Fa stream
で
.Tn I/O
操作を行った後 (成功であれ失敗であれ)、あるいはストリームが
閉じた直後では無効になります。
異常終了した場合は
.Dv NULL
が戻されます。
.Fn fgetln
関数は、ファイルの終了とエラーとを区別しません。
ファイルの終了かエラーかを判断するには、ルーチン
.Xr feof 3
および
.Xr ferror 3
を使用しなくてはなりません。
エラーが発生した場合は、そのエラーを示すために
グローバル変数
.Va errno
が設定されます。
ファイルの終了状態はたとえ端末であっても記憶されます。
.Xr clearerr 3
でその状態がクリアされるまでは、
その後読込みを試みてもすべて
.Dv NULL
が返されます。
.Pp
戻されたポインタが指し示すテキストは、
そのサイズを超えて変更を加えないという条件であれば
変更することができます。
この変更内容は、ポインタが無効になると失われます。
.Sh エラー
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EBADF
引数
.Fa stream
が、読込み用に開いたストリームではありません。
.El
.Pp
.Fn fgetln
関数はエラーを発生し、ルーチン
.Xr fflush 3 ,
.Xr malloc 3 ,
.Xr read 2 ,
.Xr stat 2 ,
.Xr realloc 3
用に指定されたエラーのいずれかが
.Va errno
に設定される場合があります。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr ferror 3 ,
.Xr fgets 3 ,
.Xr fopen 3 ,
.Xr putc 3
.Sh 歴史
.Fn fgetln
関数は、
.Bx 4.4
ではじめて登場しました。
