.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1991, 1993
.\"     The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" Chris Torek and the American National Standards Committee X3,
.\" on Information Processing Systems.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"     This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"     California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)fgets.3     8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\"
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/stdio/fgets.3,v 1.6.2.6 2001/12/14 18:33:57 ru Exp %
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd June 4, 1993
.Dt FGETS 3
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm fgets ,
.Nm gets
.Nd ストリームから行を取得
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.In stdio.h
.Ft char *
.Fn fgets "char *str" "int size" "FILE *stream"
.Ft char *
.Fn gets "char *str"
.Sh 解説
.Fn fgets
関数は、最大で
.Fa size
で指定された文字数より 1 だけ少ない数の文字を
.Fa stream
から読み込み、文字列
.Fa str
に保存します。
読込みは、改行文字が見つかったり、ファイルの終了
あるいはエラーが見つかったりした場合に停止します。
改行文字は、存在していれば保持されます。
任意の文字を読み込んでエラーが発生しなかった場合、
文字列の最後には
.Ql \e0
文字が追加されます。
.Pp
.Fn gets
関数は
.Fn fgets
関数で
.Fa size
を無限にし、
.Em stdin
を
.Fa stream
にしたものと等価ですが、
文字列中で改行文字が保存されない (改行文字が存在した場合) 点が
異なります。
入力行が存在する場合、それが十分短く文字列に収まりきる
ことを保証するのは呼び出し側の責任です。
.Sh 戻り値
正常終了すると、
.Fn fgets
と
.Fn gets
は文字列のポインタを戻します。
キャラクタを読み込む前にファイルの終了に達すると、
.Dv NULL
が戻されます。
この場合、バッファの内容は変化しません。エラーが発生すると
.Dv NULL
が戻され、バッファの内容は不定になります。
.Fn fgets
関数と
.Fn gets
関数はファイルの終了とエラーとを区別しません。
ファイルの終了かエラーかを判断するには、呼び出し側が
.Xr feof 3
と
.Xr ferror 3
を使用しなくてはなりません。
.Sh エラー
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EBADF
指定された
.Fa stream
が、読込み可能なストリームではありません。
.El
.Pp
.Fn fgets
関数がエラーになると、ルーチン
.Xr fflush 3 ,
.Xr fstat 2 ,
.Xr read 2 ,
.Xr malloc 3
用に指定されたエラーのいずれかが
.Va errno
に設定される場合があります。
.Pp
.Fn gets
関数がエラーになると、ルーチン
.Xr getchar 3
用に指定されたエラーが
.Va errno
に設定される場合があります。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr feof 3 ,
.Xr ferror 3 ,
.Xr fgetln 3
.Sh 規格
.Fn fgets
関数と
.Fn gets
関数は、
.St -isoC
に適合しています。
.Sh バグ
通常、次の入力行がある任意の長さより短いことを保証するのは
不可能であり、また入力バッファをオーバフローすると
ほぼ必ずセキュリティ違反となるため、
プログラムでは
.Fn gets
を
.Em 絶対に
使用しないでください。
.Fn gets
は、
.St -isoC
に適合するためだけに存在しています。
