.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1991, 1993
.\"     The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" Chris Torek and the American National Standards Committee X3,
.\" on Information Processing Systems.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"     This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"     California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)fputs.3     8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/stdio/fputs.3,v 1.4.2.4 2001/12/14 18:33:57 ru Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd June 4, 1993
.Dt FPUTS 3
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm fputs ,
.Nm puts
.Nd 行をストリームに出力する
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.In stdio.h
.Ft int
.Fn fputs "const char *str" "FILE *stream"
.Ft int
.Fn puts "const char *str"
.Sh 解説
.Fn fputs
関数は、
.Fa str
が指す文字列を
.Fa stream
が指すストリームに書き込みます。
.\" The terminating
.\" .Dv NUL
.\" character is not written.
.Pp
.Fn puts
関数は、文字列
.Fa str
および文字列終端用の改行文字をストリーム
.Em stdout
に書き込みます。
.Sh 戻り値
.Fn fputs
関数は、成功すれば 0 を戻し、エラーが発生した場合は
.Dv EOF
を戻します。
.Fn puts
は、成功すれば負でない整数を戻し、エラーが発生した場合は
.Dv EOF
を戻します。
.Sh エラー
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EBADF
指定された
.Fa stream
が、書込み可能なストリームではありません。
.El
.Pp
.Fn fputs
関数と
.Fn puts
関数は処理に失敗し、
ルーチン
.Xr write 2
で指定されたエラーのいずれかが
.Va errno
に設定されることがあります。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr ferror 3 ,
.Xr putc 3 ,
.Xr stdio 3
.Sh 規格
.Fn fputs
関数と
.Fn puts
関数は、
.St -isoC
に適合しています。
