.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" Chris Torek and the American National Standards Committee X3,
.\" on Information Processing Systems.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)fread.3	8.2 (Berkeley) 3/8/94
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/stdio/fread.3,v 1.5.2.3 2001/12/14 18:33:57 ru Exp %
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd March 8, 1994
.Dt FREAD 3
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm fread ,
.Nm fwrite
.Nd バイナリストリーム入出力
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.In stdio.h
.Ft size_t
.Fn fread "void *ptr" "size_t size" "size_t nmemb" "FILE *stream"
.Ft size_t
.Fn fwrite "const void *ptr" "size_t size" "size_t nmemb" "FILE *stream"
.Sh 解説
.Fn fread
関数は、
.Fa stream
が指すストリームから、それぞれが
.Fa size
バイトの大きさのオブジェクトを
.Fa nmemb
個読み込み、
.Fa ptr
で指定された場所に保存します。
.Pp
.Fn fwrite
関数は、
.Fa ptr
で指定された場所から、それぞれが
.Fa size
バイトの大きさのオブジェクトを
.Fa nmemb
個
.Fa stream
が指すストリームに書き込みます。
.Sh 戻り値
.Fn fread
関数と
.Fn fwrite
関数は、読み書きしたバイト数だけ
ストリームのファイル位置インジケータを進め、
読み書きしたオブジェクト数を返します。
エラーが発生した場合、またはファイルの終了に達した場合は、
指定したものより少ないオブジェクト数 (または 0) を返します。
.Pp
.Fn fread
関数は、ファイルの終了とエラーを区別しません。
ファイルの終了かエラーかを判断するためには、呼び出し側が
.Xr feof 3
と
.Xr ferror 3
を使用する必要があります。
.Fn fwrite
は、書き込みエラーが発生した場合に限って
.Fa nmemb
より少ない値を返します。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr read 2 ,
.Xr write 2
.Sh 規格
.Fn fread
関数と
.Fn fwrite
関数は、
.St -isoC
に適合しています。
