.\" Copyright (c) 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" the American National Standards Committee X3, on Information
.\" Processing Systems.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)frexp.3	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/gen/frexp.3,v 1.4.2.4 2001/12/14 18:33:51 ru Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd June 4, 1993
.Dt FREXP 3
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm frexp
.Nd 浮動小数点数を小数部と整数部に変換
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.In math.h
.Ft double
.Fn frexp "double value" "int *exp"
.Sh 解説
.Fn frexp
関数は、浮動小数点数を分割して、正規化された小数の部分と
2 の整数累乗の部分に分けます。
整数部は、
.Fa exp
が指す
.Em int
オブジェクトに保存されます。
.Sh 戻り値
.Fn frexp
関数は、次のような値
.Em x
を返します。
すなわち
.Em x
は、大きさが区間
.Bo 1/2 , 1 Pc
に入るかもしくは 0 の
.Em double
値であり、それに 2 の
.Fa *exp
乗を掛けると
.Fa value
と等しくなります。
.Fa value
が 0 である場合、結果のどちらの部分も 0 になります。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr ldexp 3 ,
.Xr math 3 ,
.Xr modf 3
.Pp
.Sh 規格
.Fn frexp
関数は、
.St -isoC
に適合しています。
.\"X kuma 1999-11-6
