.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" Chris Torek and the American National Standards Committee X3,
.\" on Information Processing Systems.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)fseek.3	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\"
.Dd June 4, 1993
.Dt FSEEK 3
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm fgetpos ,
.Nm fseek ,
.Nm fsetpos ,
.Nm ftell ,
.Nm rewind
.Nd ストリームの位置変更
.Sh 書式
.Fd #include <stdio.h>
.Ft int
.Fn fseek "FILE *stream" "long offset" "int whence"
.Ft long
.Fn ftell "FILE *stream"
.Ft void
.Fn rewind "FILE *stream"
.Ft int
.Fn fgetpos "FILE *stream" "fpos_t *pos"
.Ft int
.Fn fsetpos "FILE *stream" "const fpos_t *pos"
.Sh 解説
.Fn fseek
関数は、
.Fa stream
が指すストリームのファイル位置インジケータを
設定します。新しい位置はバイト単位で計測され、
.Fa whence
で指定された位置に
.Fa offset
バイトを足すことで得られます。
.Fa whence
が
.Dv SEEK_SET ,
.Dv SEEK_CUR ,
.Dv SEEK_END
に設定されている場合、オフセットは、それぞれ、ファイルの最初、
インジケータの現在位置、ファイルの最後からの相対位置になります。
.Fn fseek
関数の呼び出しで
問題が発生しない場合は、ストリームの end-of-file 指示子がクリアされ、
そのストリームの
.Xr ungetc 3
関数の結果は取り消されます。
.Pp
.Fn ftell
関数は、
.Fa stream
が指すストリームのファイル位置インジケータの
現在の値を入手します。
.Pp
.Fn rewind
関数は、
.Fa stream
が指すストリームのファイル位置インジケータを
ファイルの最初に設定します。これは、
ストリームのエラーインジケータがクリアされること (
.Xr clearerr 3
を参照) を除けば、以下と同じ結果になります。
.Pp
.Dl (void)fseek(stream, 0L, SEEK_SET)
.Pp
.Fn fgetpos
関数と
.Fn fsetpos
関数は、
.Fa whence
を
.Dv SEEK_SET
に設定した
.Fn ftell
と
.Fn fseek
と同じインタフェースで、ファイルオフセットの現在の値を
.Fa pos
が参照するオブジェクトから設定したり、
.Fa pos
が参照するオブジェクトに保存したりします。
.Tn UNIX
以外の一部のシステムでは、
.Dq Fa fpos_t
オブジェクトが複合オブジェクトとなり、
移植性を保ちながらテキストストリームの位置を
変更するためには、このルーチンに依るしかないこともあります。
.Sh 戻り値
.Fn rewind
関数は値を戻しません。
.Fn fgetpos ,
.Fn fseek ,
.Fn fsetpos
は、問題なく終了すると 0 を戻し、
.Fn ftell
は現在のオフセットを戻します。問題がある場合は  \-1 が戻され、
そのエラーを示す値がグローバル変数
.Va errno
に設定されます。
.Sh エラー
.Bl -tag -width [EINVAL]
.It Bq Er EBADF
指定された
.Fa stream
が、シークできるストリームではありません。
.It Bq Er EINVAL
.Fn fseek
の
.Fa whence
引数が、
.Dv SEEK_SET ,
.Dv SEEK_END ,
.Dv SEEK_CUR
のどれでもありません。
.El
.Pp
ルーチン
.Xr fflush 3 ,
.Xr fstat 2 ,
.Xr lseek 2 ,
.Xr malloc 3
で指定されたエラーに関して、
.Fn fgetpos ,
.Fn fseek ,
.Fn fsetpos ,
.Fn ftell
関数がエラーになり、
.Va errno
が設定されることがあります。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr lseek 2
.Sh 規格
.Fn fgetpos ,
.Fn fsetpos ,
.Fn fseek ,
.Fn ftell ,
.Fn rewind
関数は、
.St -ansiC
に準拠しています。
.\"X kuma  1999-11-6
