.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)ftime.3	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd June 4, 1993
.Dt FTIME 3
.Os BSD 4
.Sh 名称
.Nm ftime
.Nd 日時を取得する
.Sh 書式
.Fd #include <sys/types.h>
.Fd #include <sys/timeb.h>
.Ft int 
.Fn ftime "struct timeb *tp"
.Sh 解説
.Bf -symbolic
このインタフェースは、gettimeofday(2)
で置き換えられました。
.Pp
これは、互換性ライブラリ libcompat から使用できます。
.Ef
.Pp
.Fn ftime
ルーチンは、引数が指す構造体にデータを入力します。この構造体は、
.Aq Pa sys/timeb.h
で以下のように定義されています。
.Bd -literal -offset indent
/*
 * Structure returned by ftime system call
 */
struct timeb
{
          time_t  time;
          unsigned short millitm;
          short   timezone;
          short   dstflag;
};
.Ed
.Pp
この構造体には、基準時点 (Epoch) からの時間 (秒単位)、
1000 ミリ秒までのより正確な間隔、ローカルタイムゾーン
(グリニッジから西へ分単位で計測)、ゼロ以外ならば、
その場所で適切な時期に夏時間が適用されていることを表すフラグが
あります。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr gettimeofday 2 ,
.Xr settimeofday 2 ,
.Xr ctime 3 ,
.Xr time 3
.Sh 歴史
.Fn ftime
関数は、
.Bx 4.2
に追加されました。
.\"X kuma 1999-11-6
