.\" Copyright (c) 1994 SigmaSoft, Th. Lockert <tholo@sigmasoft.com>
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote products
.\"    derived from this software without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
.\" SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
.\" PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS;
.\" OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY,
.\" WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR
.\" OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF
.\" ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	$Id: ftok.3,v 1.1.1.1 1999-12-09 16:26:04 kuriyama Exp $
.Dd June 24, 1994
.Os
.Dt ftok 3
.Sh 名称
.Nm ftok
.Nd パス名から IPC 識別子を作成する
.Sh 書式
.Fd #include <sys/types.h>
.Fd #include <sys/ipc.h>
.Ft key_t
.Fn ftok "const char *path" "int id"
.Sh 解説
.Bf -symbolic
この関数は、互換性ライブラリ libcompat から使用できます。
.Ef
.Fn ftok
関数は、既存ファイルの
.Fa path
とユーザが選択可能な
.Fa id
を与えることで、
.Xr msgget 3 ,
.Xr semget 2 ,
.Xr shmget 2
関数での使用に適した、固有のキーを作成しようとします。
.Pp
.Fa path
は、呼び出しプロセスからアクセスできる既に存在するファイルを指定する
必要があります。この指定が適切でない場合、呼び出しはエラーになります。
あるファイルへのリンクでは、
.Fa id
が同じである場合、同じキーが戻されます。
.Sh 戻り値
.Fn ftok
関数は、
.Fa path
が存在しないか、呼び出しプロセスからアクセス
できない場合、-1 を戻します。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr semget 2 ,
.Xr shmget 2 ,
.Xr msgget 3
.Sh 歴史
.Fn ftok
関数は
System V に由来し、System V IPC ルーチンを使用する
プログラムで一般的に使用されます。
.Sh 作者
.An Thorsten Lockert Aq tholo@sigmasoft.com
.Sh バグ
戻されるキーは、デバイスのマイナ番号、および
.Fa path
が指すファイルの inode 番号に基づき、
.Fa id
の下位 8 ビットと組み合わせて算出されます。
このため、このルーチンは重複したキーを戻す可能性があります。
.\"X kuma 1999-11-6
