.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" Chris Torek and the American National Standards Committee X3,
.\" on Information Processing Systems.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)getc.3	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/stdio/getc.3,v 1.5.2.5 2001/12/14 18:33:57 ru Exp %
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd June 4, 1993
.Dt GETC 3
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm fgetc ,
.Nm getc ,
.Nm getchar ,
.Nm getw
.Nd 入力ストリームから次の文字またはワードを取得
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.In stdio.h
.Ft int
.Fn fgetc "FILE *stream"
.Ft int
.Fn getc "FILE *stream"
.Ft int
.Fn getchar 
.Ft int
.Fn getw "FILE *stream"
.Sh 解説
.Fn fgetc
関数は、
.Fa stream
で指したストリームから、(存在している場合) 次の入力文字を取得するか、
または、  
.Xr ungetc 3
によってそのストリームにプッシュバックされた、次の文字を取得します。
.Pp
.Fn getc
関数は
.Fn fgetc
と基本的に同じ機能ですが、これはインラインで展開するマクロです。
.Pp
.Fn getchar
関数は、
引数 stdin がついている
.Fn getc
と同等です。
.Pp
.Fn getw
関数は
.Fa stream
で指したストリームから、次の
.Em int
を (存在している場合) 取得します。
.Sh 戻り値
処理が正常に完了した場合、これらのルーチンはいずれも
.Fa stream
から次の要求オブジェクトを返します。
ストリームがファイルの終わりに達したか、
または読込みエラーが発生した場合は
.Dv EOF
を返します。
ファイルの終わりか、エラーなのかを識別するには、
.Xr feof 3
と
.Xr ferror 3
ルーチンを使用する必要があります。
エラーが発生した場合は、グローバル変数
.Va errno
にエラーを示す値が設定されます。
ファイルの終端を示す状態は端末であってもそのまま残り、
その後の読み込みに対しては
.Xr clearerr 3
によって状態がクリアされなければ
.Dv EOF
を返すことになります。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr ferror 3 ,
.Xr fopen 3 ,
.Xr fread 3 ,
.Xr putc 3 ,
.Xr ungetc 3
.Sh 規格
.Fn fgetc ,
.Fn getc
および
.Fn getchar
関数は、
.St -isoC
に適合しています。
.Sh バグ
.Dv EOF
は、有効な整数値なので
.Fn getw
を呼び出した後のエラーをチェックするには、
.Xr feof 3
および
.Xr ferror 3
を使用する必要があります。
.Em int
のサイズとバイト順はマシンによってさまざまです。
移植可能なアプリケーションが目的なら、
.Fn getw
の使用は推奨できません。
.Pp
