.\" Copyright (c) 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)getcwd.3	8.2 (Berkeley) 12/11/93
.\"	%Id: getcwd.3,v 1.6 1997/11/23 17:58:34 bde Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd November 24, 1997
.Dt GETCWD 3
.Os BSD 4.2
.Sh 名称
.Nm getcwd ,
.Nm getwd
.Nd 作業ディレクトリのパス名を取得
.Sh 書式
.Fd #include <unistd.h>
.Ft char *
.Fn getcwd "char *buf" "size_t size"
.Ft char *
.Fn getwd "char *buf"
.Sh 解説
.Fn getcwd
関数は、現在の作業ディレクトリの絶対パス名を
.Fa buf
で参照されるメモリにコピーし、
.Fa buf
のポインタを返します。
.Fa size
引数は、
.Fa buf
で参照される配列のバイト数によるサイズです。
.Pp
.Fa buf
が
.Dv NULL
の場合は、パス名を保存するのに必要なだけの空間が割り振られます。この空
間は後で  
.Xr free 3
できます。
.Pp
関数
.Fn getwd
は
.Fn getcwd
を呼び出す互換性ルーチンです。
.Fa buf
引数および、(インクルードファイル
.Aq Pa sys/param.h
で定義された)
.Dv MAXPATHLEN
のサイズを持ちます。
.Fa buf
が少なくとも、
.Dv MAXPATHLEN
バイトの長さを持たなければならないことは明らかです。
.Pp
これらのルーチンは従来、そこへ戻るために作業ディレクトリの名前を保存す
るプログラムによって使用されてきました。これをより速く誤りなく遂行する
ものとして、カレントディレクトリ 
.Pq Ql \&.
をオープンし、
.Xr fchdir 2
関数を使って戻る方法があります。
.Sh 戻り値
無事に完了した場合はパス名のポインタが返ります。その他の場合は
.Dv NULL
ポインタが返り、エラーを示すためグローバル変数
.Va errno
が設定され、さらに
.Fn getwd
が
.Va errno
に関連するエラーメッセージを
.Fa buf
で参照されるメモリにコピーします。
.Sh エラー
.Fn getcwd
関数は次の場合に失敗します。
.Bl -tag -width [EACCES]
.It Bq Er EACCES
読み込みまたは検索パーミッションが、パス名の構成要素のため拒否されまし 
た。 
.Pp
.It Bq Er EINVAL
.Fa size
引数がゼロです。
.It Bq Er ENOENT
パス名の構成要素がもはや存在しません。
.It Bq Er ENOMEM
利用できるメモリが十分ではありません。
.It Bq Er ERANGE
.Fa size
引数はゼロよりも大きいが、パス名 + 1
よりも小さいので不当です。
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr chdir 2 ,
.Xr fchdir 2 ,
.Xr malloc 3 ,
.Xr strerror 3
.Pp
.Sh 規格
.Fn getcwd
関数は、
.St -ansiC
に準拠しています。
.Dv NULL
ポインタを指定して、必要に応じて
.Fn getcwd
にメモリを割り振る機能は拡張部分です。
.Sh 歴史
.Fn getwd
関数は
.Bx 4.0
で最初に取り入れられました。
.Sh バグ
.Fn getwd
関数はエラーチックを十分に行いません。非常に長いパス名は、有効でも返す
ことができません。互換性を考える上で注意が必要です。 
