.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)gethostname.3	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\"	%Id: getdomainname.3,v 1.8 1997/02/22 14:58:06 peter Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd May 6, 1994
.Dt GETDOMAINNAME 3
.Os BSD 4.2
.Sh 名称
.Nm getdomainname ,
.Nm setdomainname
.Nd 現在のホストのドメイン名を取得/設定
.Sh 書式
.Fd #include <unistd.h>
.Ft int
.Fn getdomainname "char *name" "int namelen"
.Ft int
.Fn setdomainname "const char *name" "int namelen"
.Sh 解説
.Fn Getdomainname
は前に
.Fn setdomainname
によって設定された、現在のプロセッサの標準ドメイン名を返します。パラメー
タ  
.Fa namelen
は
.Fa name
配列のサイズを指定します。空間が十分にない場合を除いて、返される値は 
null で終わります。
.Pp
.Fn Setdomainname
は
.Fa name
するホストマシンの、長さ
.Fa namelen
のドメイン名を設定します。この呼び出しはスーパユーザに限定されます。通
常はシステムを、ブートストラップする場合にだけ使用されます。
.Sh 戻り値
呼び出しに成功した場合は値 0が返ります。呼び出しに失敗した場合は値 -1 
が返り、グローバルな位置
.Va errno
にエラーコードが置かれます。
.Sh エラー
これらの呼び出しによって、次のエラーが返る場合があります。
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EFAULT
.Fa name
または
.Fa namelen
パラメータに与えたアドレスが無効です。
.It Bq Er EPERM
呼び出し元がホスト名を設定しようとしましたが、スーパユーザではありませ
ん。
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr gethostid 3 ,
.Xr gethostname 3 ,
.Xr sysctl 3
.Sh バグ
ドメイン名は、(
.Ao Pa sys/param.h Ac
による)
.Dv MAXHOSTNAMELEN
長さのキャラクタ、現在 256 文字に限られています。
.Sh 歴史
.Fn getdomainname
関数の呼び出しは、
.Bx 4.2
で最初に登場しました。
