.\" Copyright (c) 1988, 1991, 1993
.\"     The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" the American National Standards Committee X3, on Information
.\" Processing Systems.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"     This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"     California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)getenv.3    8.2 (Berkeley) 12/11/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/stdlib/getenv.3,v 1.4.2.7 2001/12/14 18:33:58 ru Exp %
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd December 11, 1993
.Dt GETENV 3
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm getenv ,
.Nm putenv ,
.Nm setenv ,
.Nm unsetenv
.Nd 環境変数関数
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.In stdlib.h
.Ft char *
.Fn getenv "const char *name"
.Ft int
.Fn setenv "const char *name" "const char *value" "int overwrite"
.Ft int
.Fn putenv "const char *string"
.Ft void
.Fn unsetenv "const char *name"
.Sh 解説
これらの関数は、環境変数を設定もしくは削除し、またホストの
.Em environment list
からそれらを取り出します。
異なる慣習の環境との互換性のため、与えられた引数
.Ar name
および
.Ar value
はそれぞれ、等価記号
.Dq Li \&=
によって後に付加することも、前に付加することもできます。 
.Pp
.Fn getenv
関数は、環境変数
.Ar name
の現在の値を取得します。
変数
.Ar name
が現在の環境にない場合は、null ポインタが返ります。
.Pp
.Fn setenv
関数は、環境変数
.Ar name
を現在の環境リストに挿入または再設定します。
変数
.Ar name
がリストにない場合は、与えられた
.Ar value
に設定されて挿入されます。
変数が存在する場合は引数
.Ar overwrite
が検査され、
.Ar overwrite
が 0 ならば変数
.Ar name
は再設定されません。
その他の場合は、与えられた値に再設定されます。
.Pp
.Fn putenv
関数は、``name=value'' の形で引数をとります。
これは次と等価です。
.Bd -literal -offset indent 
setenv(name, value, 1);
.Ed
.Pp
.Fn unsetenv
関数は、
.Fa name
で示される変数名のインスタンスを、リストからすべて削除します。
.Sh 戻り値
.Rv -std setenv putenv
.Sh エラー
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er ENOMEM
環境にメモリを割り振ることができなかったので、関数
.Fn setenv
または
.Fn putenv
は失敗しました。
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr csh 1 ,
.Xr sh 1 ,
.Xr execve 2 ,
.Xr environ 7
.Sh 規格
.Fn getenv
関数は、
.St -isoC
に適合しています。
.Sh バグ
異なる大きさの
.Ar value
を同じ
.Ar name
に設定する、連続した
.Fn setenv
や
.Fn putenv
の呼び出しは、メモリリークを引き起こします。
.Fx
のこれらの関数のセマンティクス
(つまり
.Ar value
の内容はコピーされ、その古い値はいつまでもアクセス可能のまま残される)
によって、このバグは回避不能です。
このバグを修正するために、将来のバージョンでは、
このセマンティクスの保証の一つ、もしくは両方を削除するかも知れません。
.Sh 歴史
関数
.Fn setenv
および
.Fn unsetenv
は、
.At v7
ではじめて登場しました。
.Fn putenv
関数は、
.Bx 4.3 Reno
ではじめて登場しました。
