.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)gethostid.3	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/2/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/compat-43/gethostid.3,v 1.5.2.5 2001/12/14 18:33:49 ru Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd June 2, 1993
.Dt GETHOSTID 3
.Os BSD 4.2
.Sh 名称
.Nm gethostid ,
.Nm sethostid
.Nd 現在のホストの固有の識別子の取得 / 設定
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.In unistd.h
.Ft long
.Fn gethostid void
.Ft void
.Fn sethostid "long hostid"
.Sh 解説
.Fn sethostid
は現在のプロセッサの 32 ビット識別子を設定します。
識別子は現存するすべての UNIX システムのなかで、固有であることが意図されます。
通常はローカルマシンの DARPA インターネットアドレスです。
この関数を呼び出せるのはスーパユーザだけで、通常は起動時に実行されます。
.Pp
.Fn gethostid
は、現在のプロセッサの 32 ビット識別子を返します。
.Pp
この関数は旧式なものとなりました。
hostid の設定および取り出しには
.Xr sysctl 3
を使用すべきです。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr gethostname 3 ,
.Xr sysctl 3 ,
.Xr sysctl 8
.Sh バグ
この識別子が 32 ビットでは小さすぎます。
.Sh 歴史
.Fn gethostid
および
.Fn sethostid
システムコールは、
.Bx 4.2
で登場し、
.Bx 4.4
で打ち切られました。
