.\" Copyright (c) 1989, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)getloadavg.3	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\"
.Dd June 4, 1993
.Dt GETLOADAVG 3
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm getloadavg
.Nd システムの負荷平均の取得
.Sh 書式
.Fd #include <stdlib.h>
.Ft int
.Fn getloadavg "double loadavg[]" "int nelem"
.Sh 解説
.Fn getloadavg
関数は、さまざまな期間で平均したシステム実行待ち行列のプロセス数を返します。
最大個数
.Fa nelem
のサンプルが取り出され、
.Fa loadavg Ns Bq
の逐次要素に割り当てられます。システムは直近の 1, 5, 15 分間での平均を示す、
最大 3 個のサンプルを必要とします。
.Sh 診断
負荷平均が得られなかった場合は -1 が返ります。
その他の場合は、実際に取り出されたサンプルの個数が返ります。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr uptime 1 ,
.Xr kvm_getloadavg 3 ,
.Xr sysctl 3
.Sh 歴史
.Fn getloadavg
関数は、
.Bx 4.3 Reno
で最初に取り入れられました。
