.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)getnetent.3	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\"
.Dd June 4, 1993
.Dt GETNETENT 3
.Os BSD 4.2
.Sh 名称
.Nm getnetent ,
.Nm getnetbyaddr ,
.Nm getnetbyname ,
.Nm setnetent ,
.Nm endnetent
.Nd ネットワークエントリの取得
.Sh 書式
.Fd #include <netdb.h>
.Ft struct netent *
.Fn getnetent void
.Ft struct netent *
.Fn getnetbyname "const char *name"
.Ft struct netent *
.Fn getnetbyaddr "unsigned long net" "int type"
.Ft void
.Fn setnetent "int stayopen"
.Ft void
.Fn endnetent void
.Sh 解説
.Fn getnetent ,
.Fn getnetbyname ,
.Fn getnetbyaddr
関数はそれぞれ、次に示す構造体を持つオブジェクトのポインタを返します。
構造体には、ネットワークデータベース
.Pa /etc/network
にある行の内訳フィールドが含まれます。
.Bd -literal -offset indent
struct	netent {
	char		*n_name;	/* ネットワークの正式名 */
	char		**n_aliases;	/* 別名リスト */
	int		n_addrtype;	/* ネット番号のタイプ */
	unsigned long	n_net;		/* ネット番号 */
};
.Ed
.Pp
この構造体のメンバは次のとおりです。
.Bl -tag -width n_addrtype
.It Fa n_name
ネットワークの正式名。
.It Fa n_aliases
ネットワークの別名 (エイリアス) の 0 で終わるリスト。
.It Fa n_addrtype
返されるネットワーク番号のタイプであり、現在は
.Dv AF_INET
だけです。
.It Fa n_net
ネットワーク番号。
ネットワーク番号は、マシンバイト順で返されます。
.El
.Pp
.Fn getnetent
関数はファイルの次の行を読み込みます。
この際、必要ならば目的のファイルをオープンします。
.Pp
.Fn setnetent
関数は、目的のファイルをオープンしリワインドします。
.Fa stayopen
フラグが 0 でなければ
.Fn getnetbyname
または
.Fn getnetbyaddr
それぞれの呼び出しの後に、ネットデータベースはクローズされません。
.Pp
.Fn endnetent
関数はファイルをクローズします。
.Pp
.Fn getnetbyname
関数および
.Fn getnetbyaddr
は、適合するネット名またはネットアドレスおよびタイプが見つかるか、または
.Dv EOF
に達するまで、ファイルを最初から順次検索します。
.Fa type
は
.Dv AF_INET
でなければなりません。
ネットワーク番号はホストオーダで規定されます。
.Pp
.Sh 関連ファイル
.Bl -tag -width /etc/networks -compact
.It Pa /etc/networks
.El
.Sh 診断
.Dv EOF
またはエラーの場合は、
ヌルポインタ (0) が返ります。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr networks 5
.Pp
.%T RFC 1101
.Sh 歴史
.Fn getnetent ,
.Fn getnetbyaddr ,
.Fn getnetbyname ,
.Fn setnetent ,
.Fn endnetent
関数は、
.Bx 4.2
で最初に取り入れられました。
.Sh バグ
これらの関数で使用されるデータ空間は静的です。
後でこのデータを使う必要がある場合は、
以後のこれら関数の呼び出しでデータを上書きする前に、
コピーして保存する必要があります。
データとして受け入れられるのは現在、インターネットネットワーク番号だけです。
ネットワーク番号が 32 ビットを超えない範囲に収まるというのは、
おそらく素朴な考えです。
