.\" Copyright (c) 1989, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)getpass.3	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd June 4, 1993
.Dt GETPASS 3
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm getpass
.Nd パスワードを取得
.Sh 書式
.Fd #include <pwd.h>
.Fd #include <unistd.h>
.Ft char *
.Fn getpass "const char *prompt"
.Sh 解説
.Fn getpass
関数は
.Pa /dev/tty
にプロンプトを表示し、パスワードをそこから読み
込みます。ファイルにアクセスできない場合、
.Fn getpass
はプロンプトを標準
エラー出力に表示し、標準入力からパスワードを読み込みます。
.Pp
パスワードの長さは最大
_PASSWORD_LEN (現在
128)
キャラクタまで可能です。
それを超えるキャラクタと終端の改行キャラクタは廃棄されます。
.Pp
パスワードの読み込み中、
.Fn getpass
関数はキャラクタのエコーをオフにします。
.Pp
.Sh 戻り値
.Fn getpass
関数は、
null
で終わるパスワードのポインタを返します。
.Sh 関連ファイル
.Bl -tag -width /dev/tty -compact
.It Pa /dev/tty
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr crypt 3
.Sh 歴史
.Fn getpass
関数は、
.At v7
で最初に取り入れられました。
.Sh バグ
.Fn getpass
関数は内部静的オブジェクトに処理結果を残し、オブジェクトの
ポインタを返します。以後の
.Fn getpass
呼び出しが同じオブジェクトを改変します。
.Pp
クリアテキストパスワードが、この処理のアドレス空間に可視の状態で残るのを
回避するためには、この関数の呼び出し処理によってできるだけ早くパスワードを
ゼロにする必要があります。
.Pp
SIGTSTP
を受け取ると入力バッファはフラッシュされます。したがって処理を
継続する場合は、一部タイプ指定したパスワードはすべて再入力する
必要があります。
