.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)getpw.3	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libcompat/4.1/getpw.3,v 1.5.2.5 2001/12/17 10:08:28 ru Exp %
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd June 4, 1993
.Dt GETPW 3
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm getpw
.Nd uid からユーザ名を取得
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libcompat
.Sh 書式
.In sys/types.h
.Ft int
.Fn getpw "uid_t uid" "char *buf"
.Sh 解説
.Bf -symbolic
.Fn getpw
関数は、
.Xr getpwuid 3
の登場によって旧式のものとなっています。
.Ef
.Pp
.Fn getpw
関数はファイル
.Pa /etc/passwd
を読み込んで、指定された
.Fa uid
が見つかればその
パスワードエントリ行を、
.Fa buf
が指す文字列にコピーします。
パスワードデータベースからコピーするエントリ行が
null
で終わっている場合は、
.Dv NUL
キャラクタを後に付加します。
.Sh 戻り値
.Fn getpw
関数は、処理が正常終了した場合には 0 を返します。
エントリが存在しないなど、その他の場合は 0 以外を返します。
.Sh 関連ファイル
.Bl -tag -width /etc/passwd -compact
.It Pa /etc/passwd
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr getpwent 3 ,
.Xr passwd 5
.Sh 歴史
.Fn getpw
関数は
.At v6
ではじめて登場しました。
.Sh バグ
.Fa buf
で示された領域は、ユーザ名を保持するのに十分な大きさである
必要があります。
.Pp
.Xr getpwent 3
に関するバグはすべてこの関数でも当てはまります。
