.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1991, 1993
.\"     The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"     This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"     California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     From: @(#)getservent.3  8.3 (Berkeley) 1/12/94
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/net/getservent.3,v 1.7.2.5 2001/12/14 18:33:55 ru Exp %
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd July 9, 1995
.Dt GETSERVENT 3
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm getservent ,
.Nm getservbyport ,
.Nm getservbyname ,
.Nm setservent ,
.Nm endservent
.Nd サービスエントリの取得
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.In netdb.h
.Ft struct servent *
.Fn getservent 
.Ft struct servent *
.Fn getservbyname "const char *name" "const char *proto"
.Ft struct servent *
.Fn getservbyport "int port" "const char *proto"
.Ft void
.Fn setservent "int stayopen"
.Ft void
.Fn endservent void
.Sh 解説
.Fn getservent ,
.Fn getservbyname
および
.Fn getservbyport
関数はそれぞれ、次に示す構造を持つオブジェクトへのポインタを返します。
構造体にはネットワークサービスデータベース
.Pa /etc/services
にある、行の内訳フィールドが含まれます。
.Bd -literal -offset indent
struct  servent {
        char    *s_name;        /* サービスのオフィシャル名 */
        char    **s_aliases;    /* エイリアスリスト */
        int     s_port;         /* サービスが常駐するポート */
        char    *s_proto;       /* 使用するプロトコル */
};
.Ed
.Pp
この構造体のメンバは次のとおりです。
.Bl -tag -width s_aliases
.It Fa s_name
サービスのオフィシャル名。
.It Fa s_aliases
サービスの別名 (エイリアス) の 0 で終るリスト。
.It Fa s_port
サービスが存在するポート番号。
ポート番号はネットワークバイトオーダで返されます。
.It Fa s_proto
サービスとのコンタクト中に使用するプロトコル名。
.El
.Pp
.Fn getservent
関数は、ファイルの次の行を読み込みます。
その際、必要ならばファイルをオープンします。
.Pp
.Fn setservent
関数はファイルをオープンしリワインドします。
.Fa stayopen
フラグが 0 でなければ、
.Fn getservbyname
または
.Fn getservbyport
の各呼び出しの後でも、ネットデータベースはクローズされません。
.Pp
.Fn endservent
関数はファイルをクローズします。
.Pp
.Fn getservbyname
および
.Fn getservbyport
関数は、適合するプロトコル名またはポート番号
(これはネットワークバイトオーダで指定されなければなりません)
が見つかるか、さもなければ
.Dv EOF
に達するまで、ファイルを最初から順次検索します。
プロトコル名が与えられていても (
.Dv NULL
でなくても)、検索は適合するプロトコルが見つかるまで続けられます。
.Sh 関連ファイル
.Bl -tag -width /etc/services -compact
.It Pa /etc/services
.El
.Sh 診断
.Dv EOF
またはエラーの場合、
Null
ポインタ
(0)
が返ります。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr getprotoent 3 ,
.Xr services 5
.Sh 歴史
.Fn getservent ,
.Fn getservbyport ,
.Fn getservbyname ,
.Fn setservent
および
.Fn endservent
関数は、
.Bx 4.2
で登場しました。
.Sh バグ
これらの関数は静的データ記憶域を使用します。
後でこのデータを使用する必要があれば、以後のこれらの関数呼び出しで
データが上書きされる前に、コピーして保存する必要があります。
ポート番号がすべて 32 ビットに適合すると期待するのは、たぶん素朴過ぎます。
