.\" Copyright (c) 1985, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)getusershell.3	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/gen/getusershell.3,v 1.5.2.3 2001/12/14 18:33:51 ru Exp %
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd June 4, 1993
.Dt GETUSERSHELL 3
.Os 
.Sh 名称
.Nm getusershell ,
.Nm setusershell ,
.Nm endusershell
.Nd 正規ユーザシェルを取得
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.In unistd.h
.Ft char *
.Fn getusershell void
.Ft void
.Fn setusershell void
.Ft void
.Fn endusershell void
.Sh 解説
.Fn getusershell
関数は、システム管理者がファイル
.Pa /etc/shells
に定義している正規ユーザシェルのポインタを返します。
.Pa /etc/shells
が読み込めないかまたは存在しない場合、
.Fn getusershell
は、あたかも
.Pa /bin/sh
および
.Pa /bin/csh
がファイルにリストされていたかのように挙動します。
.Pp
.Fn getusershell
関数は
(必要ならばファイルをオープンして)
次の行を読み込みます。
.Fn setusershell
関数はファイルの先頭まで戻り、
.Fn endusershell
関数はファイルをクローズします。
.Sh 関連ファイル
.Bl -tag -width /etc/shells -compact
.It Pa /etc/shells
.El
.Sh 診断
.Fn getusershell
ルーチンは、
.Dv EOF
で
ヌルポインタ (0) を返します。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr shells 5
.Sh 歴史
.Fn getusershell
関数は
.Bx 4.3
ではじめて登場しました。
.Sh バグ
.Fn getusershell
関数は、処理結果を内部の静的オブジェクトに残し、その
オブジェクトのポインタを返します。以後
.Fn getusershell
を呼び出すと、同じオブジェクトを変更します。
