.\" Copyright (c) 1985, 1991 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     from: @(#)ieee.3	6.4 (Berkeley) 5/6/91
.\"	%Id: ieee.3,v 1.4 1997/02/22 15:09:35 peter Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd Feb 25, 1994
.Dt IEEE 3
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm copysign ,
.Nm copysignf ,
.Nm finite ,
.Nm finitef ,
.Nm ilogb ,
.Nm ilogbf ,
.Nm nextafter ,
.Nm nextafterf ,
.Nm remainder ,
.Nm remainderf ,
.Nm scalbn ,
.Nm scalbnf
.Nd IEEE論理演算
.Sh 書式
.Fd #include <math.h>
.Ft double 
.Fn copysign "double x" "double y"
.Ft float 
.Fn copysignf "float x" "float y"
.Ft int 
.Fn finite "double x"
.Ft int 
.Fn finitef "float x"
.Ft int
.Fn ilogb "double x"
.Ft int
.Fn ilogbf "float x"
.Ft double 
.Fn nextafter "double x" "double y"
.Ft float
.Fn nextafterf "float x" "float y"
.Ft double
.Fn remainder "double x" "double y"
.Ft float
.Fn remainderf "float x" "float y"
.Ft double 
.Fn scalbn "double x" "int n"
.Ft float 
.Fn scalbnf "float x" "int n"
.Sh 解説
これらの関数は
.St -ieee754
により要求または推奨されています。
.Pp
.Fn copysign
と
.Fn copysignf
は
.Fa x
の符号を
.Fa y
の符号に置き換えて
.Fa x
を返します。
.Pp
\-\*(If \*(Lt
.Fa x
\*(Lt +\*(If
のとき、
.Fn finite
と
.Fn finitef
は値 1 を返します。
その他
( 
.Pf \\*(Ba Ns Fa x Ns \\*(Ba
= \*(If
または
.Fa x
が \*(Na の時 )
はゼロを返します。
.Pp
.Fn ilogb
と
.Fn ilogbf
は
.Fa x
の
.Fa n
乗を整数値で返します。
.Fn ilogb \*(Pm\*(If
は
.Dv INT_MAX
を戻し、
.Fn ilogb 0
は
.Dv INT_MIN
を返します。
.Pp
.Fn nextafter
と
.Fn nextafterf
は次のマシン表示可能な数を
.Fa x
から
.Fa y
方向に返します。
.Pp
.Fn remainder
と
.Fn remainderf
は剰余
.Fa r 
:= 
.Fa x
\- 
.Fa n\(**y
を返します。このとき 
.Fa n
は
.Bk -words
.Fa x Ns / Ns Fa y
.Ek
の完全な値に最も近似の整数です。さらに、
.Pf \\*(Ba Fa n
\-
.Sm off
.Fa x No / Fa y No \\*(Ba
.Sm on
=
1/2
ならば、
.Fa n
は偶数です。
この結果、剰余は完全に計算されて、
.Sm off
.Pf \\*(Ba Fa r No \\*(Ba
.Sm on
\*(Le
.Sm off
.Pf \\*(Ba Fa y No \\*(Ba/2
.Sm on
になります。しかし、
.Fn remainder x 0
と
.Fn remainder \*(If 0
は \*(Na を作る無効の演算です。
.Pp
.Fn scalbn
と
.Fn scalbnf
は指数操作で計算される
.Fa x Ns \(**(2** Ns Fa n )
を返します。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr math 3
.Sh 歴史
.Nm ieee
関数は
.Bx 4.3
から登場しました。
.Sh 規格
.St -ieee754
