.\" Copyright (c) 1985, 1991 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     from: @(#)ieee.3	6.4 (Berkeley) 5/6/91
.\"	$Id: ieee_test.3,v 1.1.1.1 1999-12-09 16:26:03 kuriyama Exp $
.\"
.Dd March 10, 1994
.Dt IEEE_TEST 3
.Os 
.Sh 名称
.Nm logb ,
.Nm logbf ,
.Nm scalb ,
.Nm scalbf ,
.Nm significand ,
.Nm significandf
.Nd IEEEテスト関数
.Sh 書式
.Fd #include <math.h>
.Ft double 
.Fn logb "double x"
.Ft float 
.Fn logbf "float x"
.Ft double 
.Fn scalb "double x" "double n"
.Ft float 
.Fn scalbf "float x" "float n"
.Ft double
.Fn significand "double x"
.Ft float
.Fn significandf "float x"
.Sh 解説
これらの関数でユーザは
.St -ieee754
への適合性のテストができます。
それ以外の目的での使用は推奨されません。
.Pp
.Fn logb x
と
.Fn logbf x
は、
.Fa x
の
.Fa n
乗で符号付き整数を倍精度浮動小数点に変換して返します。
.Fn logb \*(Pm\*(If
= +\*(If;
.Fn logb 0 
= -\*(If
ゼロ除算による例外が発生します。
.Pp
.Fn scalbn x n
と
.Fn scalbnf x n
は
指数操作により計算される
.Fa x Ns \(**(2** Ns Fa n )
を返します。
.Pp
.Fn significand x
と
.Fn significandf x
は
1 \(<= 
.Fa sig
< 2 の範囲のとき
.Fa sig
を返します。このとき、
.Fa x 
:= 
.Fa sig No \(** 2** Ns Fa n
です。
.Fn significand x
と
.Fn significandf x
は
.Fa x
が
0, \*(Pm\*(If
または
\*(Na
のとき定義されません。
.Pp
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr ieee 3 ,
.Xr math 3

.Sh 規格
.St -ieee754
