.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)insque.3	8.2 (Berkeley) 12/11/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libcompat/4.3/insque.3,v 1.5.2.4 2001/08/17 15:42:56 ru Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd December 11, 1993
.Dt INSQUE 3
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm insque ,
.Nm remque
.Nd 待ち行列に対して要素を挿入/削除する
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libcompat
.Sh 書式
.Bd -literal
struct qelem {
	struct	qelem *q_forw;
	struct	qelem *q_back;
	char	q_data[];
};
.Ed
.Pp
.Ft void
.Fn insque "struct qelem *elem" "struct qelem *pred"
.Ft void
.Fn remque "struct qelem *elem"
.Sh 解説
.Bf -symbolic
insque と remque 関数は時代遅れの関数です。
.Ef
.Pp
.Fn insque
と
.Fn remque
関数は、二重リンクのリストから作られた待ち行列を
操作します。待ち行列中の各要素は
.Dq Li struct qelem
形式をとる必要があります。
.Fn insque
関数は待ち行列中の
.Fa pred
の直後に
.Fa elem
を挿入します。
.Fn remque
は待ち行列から要素
.Fa elem
を削除します。
.Sh 関連項目
.%T "VAX Architecture Handbook" ,
pp. 228-235.
.Sh 歴史
.Fn insque
と
.Fn remque
関数は
.Bx 4.2
から登場しました。
