.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)intro.3	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/5/93
.\"	%Id: intro.3,v 1.6 1998/06/06 05:50:50 jkoshy Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd June 5, 1993
.Dt INTRO 3
.Os BSD 4
.Sh 名称
.Nm intro
.Nd C ライブラリの手引
.Sh 解説
本節では C ライブラリ関数とエラー時の返却値、他の共通定義、そして設計
概念について概説します。これらの関数のほとんどが C ライブラリである
.Em libc
から利用可能です。
.\" (see
.\" .Xr libc 3 ) .
その他のライブラリ、例えば数学ライブラリである 
.Em libm
等を利用する場合には、コンパイル時にコンパイラの 
.Fl l 
オプションを付加して、その利用を指示する必要があります。
.\" .Pp
.\" A subset of the
.\" .Xr libc functions
.\" are available from Fortran;
.\" they are described separately in
.\" .Xr intro 3f .
.Pp
各種ライブラリ一覧 ( 括弧内はローダフラグ ):
.Bl -tag -width "libc (-lc)"
.It Xr libc Pq Fl l Ns Ar c
標準 C ライブラリ関数。
.\" (See
.\" .Xr libc 3 . )
C コンパイラ 
.Xr cc 1
を使うときは、ローダフラグ 
.Fl l Ns Ar c
を指定する必要はありません。 
.Xr libc
の内部にはいくつかの `ライブラリ' または関数グループが含まれます。これらは、
.Tn 標準 I/O
ルーチン、データベース・ルーチン、ビット・オペレータ、ストリング・
オペレータ、キャラクタ試験とキャラクタ・オペレータ、des 暗号ルーチン、
記憶割当、時間関数、シグナル処理他です。
.It Xo
.Xr libcurses
.Pf ( Fl l Ns Ar curses 
.Fl l Ns Ar termcap )
.Xc
2次元非ビットマップ・ディスプレィ端末用の端末独立
スクリーン管理ルーチン。
(
.Xr curses 3
を参照)
.It Xr libcompat Pq Fl l Ns Ar compat
廃止されているが、
.Bx 4.3
との互換性の生成に使える関数。特に、ソース・コード
の互換性確保のために、
.Bx 
の旧リリースで提供された各種のシステム・
コール・インタフェースが含まれています。これらのルーチンの使用は、
できるだけ避けるべきです。マニュアル・ページの互換性ルーチンの見出し項目に
使用すべき適切なインタフェースが表示されています。
.It Xr libkvm Pq Fl l Ns Ar kvm
カーネル・メモリへのアクセスに使われる関数はこのライブラリにあります。
実行中のシステムとクラッシュ・ダンプの両方に使用できます。
.Pq Xr kvm 3 を参照
.It Xr libl Pq Fl l Ns Ar l
.Xr lex 1 
用ライブラリ
.\" .It Xr libln
.It Xr libm Pq Fl l Ns Ar m
数学ライブラリ、 
.Em libm。
数学ライブラリは Pascal コンパイラ
.\" .Xr pc 1
が必要なときにロードされますが、
.Fl l Ns Ar m
フラッグを要求するCコンパイラからは
ロードされません(
.Xr math 3 を参照 )。
.It Xr libmp Pq Fl l Ns Ar mp
.\" .It Xr libom
.\" Old math library.
.\" .It Xr libplot Pq Fl l Ns Ar plot
.\" Device independent plotting functions. 
.\" (See
.\" .Xr plot 3 . )
.\" .It Xr libplotf77 Pq Fl l Ns Ar plotf77
.\" The device independent plotting functions for fortran. 
.\" (See
.\" .Xr plot 3 . )
.\" .It Xr libresolv Pq Fl l Ns Ar resolv
.\" Routines for network address resolution.
.It Xr libtermcap Pq Fl l Ns Ar termcap
端末独立操作ライブラリ・パッケージ(
.Xr termcap 3 を参照 )。
.\" .It libvt0.a
.It Xr liby Pq Fl l Ns Ar y
.Xr yacc 1
用ライブラリ
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width /usr/lib/libm_p.a -compact
.It Pa /usr/lib/libc.a
C ライブラリ
.It Pa /usr/lib/libc_p.a
プロファイリングにコンパイルされた C ライブラリ
.It Pa /usr/lib/libm.a
数学ライブラリ
.It Pa /usr/lib/libm_p.a
プロファイリングにコンパイルされた数学ライブラリ
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.\" .Xr libc 3 ,
.Xr cc 1 ,
.Xr ld 1 ,
.Xr nm 1 ,
.Xr intro 2 ,
.Xr math 3 ,
.Xr stdio 3
.\" .Sh LIST OF FUNCTIONS
.\" .Bl -column "strncasecmpxxx" "system"
.\" .Sy Name	Description
.\" .El
.Sh 歴史
.Nm intro 
マニュアルは 
.At v7
で取り入れられました。
