.\" Copyright (c) 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" the American National Standards Committee X3, on Information
.\" Processing Systems.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)iscntrl.3	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/locale/iscntrl.3,v 1.6.2.5 2001/12/14 18:33:54 ru Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd June 4, 1993
.Dt ISCNTRL 3
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm iscntrl
.Nd 制御文字のテスト
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.In ctype.h
.Ft int
.Fn iscntrl "int c"
.Sh 解説
.Fn iscntrl
関数は制御文字であるかどうかをテストします。
C の単一の
.Va char
で表現できるロケール (
.Xr multibyte 3
参照) に対しては、引数の値は
.Li unsigned char
で表現できるものか値
.Dv EOF
です。
ASCII 文字集合においては、次の文字が含まれます
(それらの数値を 8 進数でも示します):
.Pp
.Bl -column \&000_``0''__ \&000_``0''__ \&000_``0''__ \&000_``0''__ \&000_``0''__
.It "\&000\ nul \t001\ soh \t002\ stx \t003\ etx \t004\ eot"
.It "\&005\ enq \t006\ ack \t007\ bel \t010\ bs \t011\ ht"
.It "\&012\ nl \t013\ vt \t014\ np \t015\ cr \t016\ so"
.It "\&017\ si \t020\ dle \t021\ dc1 \t022\ dc2 \t023\ dc3"
.It "\&024\ dc4 \t025\ nak \t026\ syn \t027\ etb \t030\ can"
.It "\&031\ em \t032\ sub \t033\ esc \t034\ fs \t035\ gs"
.It "\&036\ rs \t037\ us \t177\ del"
.El
.Sh 戻り値
.Fn iscntrl
関数は、文字テスト結果が偽のとき 0 を返し、
文字テスト結果が真のとき 0 以外を返します。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr ctype 3 ,
.Xr multibyte 3 ,
.Xr ascii 7
.Sh 規格
.Fn iscntrl
関数は
.St -isoC
に適合しています。
