.\" Copyright (c) 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)isinf.3	8.2 (Berkeley) 1/29/94
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/gen/isinf.3,v 1.5.2.2 2001/03/06 16:45:54 ru Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd January 29, 1994
.Dt ISINF 3
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm isinf ,
.Nm isnan ,
.Nm isnanf
.Nd 無限大 (infinity) または非数値 (not-a-number) のテスト
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.Ft int
.Fn isinf double
.Ft int
.Fn isnan double
.Ft int
.Fn isnanf float
.Sh 解説
.Fn isinf
関数は、数値が
「無限大」
.Dq \\*(If
であれば
1 を、そうでなければ
0 を返します。
.Pp
.Fn isnan
関数および
.Fn isnanf
関数は、倍精度実数または単精度実数が
「非数値」
.Dq not-a-number
であれば 1 を、
そうでなければ 0 を返します。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr math 3
.Rs
.%T "IEEE Standard for Binary Floating-Point Arithmetic"
.%Q ANSI
.%R Std 754-1985
.Re
.Sh バグ
.Tn VAX
および
Tahoe のどちらの浮動小数点数においても、
「無限大」や「非数値」を見分けるための値を持ちません。
これらのアーキテクチャ上では、これらのルーチンは、常に 0 を返します。
