.\" Copyright (c) 1985, 1991 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     from: @(#)j0.3	6.7 (Berkeley) 4/19/91
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/msun/man/j0.3,v 1.8.2.3 2001/12/17 10:08:36 ru Exp %
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd April 19, 1991
.Dt J0 3
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm j0 ,
.Nm j0f ,
.Nm j1 ,
.Nm j1f ,
.Nm jn ,
.Nm jnf ,
.Nm y0 ,
.Nm y0f ,
.Nm y1 ,
.Nm y1f ,
.Nm yn ,
.Nm ynf
.Nd 第一種、第二種ベッセル関数
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libm
.Sh 書式
.In math.h
.Ft double
.Fn j0 "double x"
.Ft float
.Fn j0f "float x"
.Ft double
.Fn j1 "double x"
.Ft float
.Fn j1f "float x"
.Ft double
.Fn jn "int n" "double x"
.Ft float
.Fn jnf "int n" "float x"
.Ft double
.Fn y0 "double x"
.Ft float
.Fn y0f "float x"
.Ft double
.Fn y1 "double x"
.Ft float
.Fn y1f "float x"
.Ft double
.Fn yn "int n" "double x"
.Ft float
.Fn ynf "int n" "float x"
.Sh 解説
関数
.Fn j0 ,
.Fn j0f ,
.Fn j1 ,
.Fn j1f
はそれぞれ実数値
.Fa x
に対して
0
.Em 次
と
1
.Em 次の第一種ベッセル関数
を計算します。
関数
.Fn jn ,
.Fn jnf
は実数値
.Fa x
に対して
.Em 整数次
.Fa n
.Em の第一種ベッセル関数
を計算します。
.Pp
関数
.Fn y0 ,
.Fn y0f ,
.Fn y1 ,
.Fn y1f
は正の
.Em 実数
値
.Fa x
に対して、
線形独立な
0
.Em 次と
1
.Em 次の第二種ベッセル関数
を計算します。
関数
.Fn yn ,
.Fn ynf
は正の
.Em 実数
値
.Fa x
に対して
.Em 整数次
.Fa n
.Em の第二種ベッセル関数
を計算します。
.Sh 戻り値
これらの関数が正常終了すると、計算結果が返されます。
.Tn VAX
および
.Tn Tahoe
アーキテクチャでは、
第二種ベッセル関数に対しては、
負または
0 の
.Fa x
の値
はエラーになります。
グローバル変数
.Va errno
は
.Er EDOM
に設定されて予約オペランドフォルトが生成されます。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr math 3
.Sh 歴史
この一群の関数は
.At v7
で登場しました。
