.\" Copyright (c) 1992, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software developed by the Computer Systems
.\" Engineering group at Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory under DARPA contract
.\" BG 91-66 and contributed to Berkeley.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)kvm.3	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd June 4, 1993
.Dt KVM 3
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm kvm
.Nd カーネル・メモリ・インタフェース
.Sh 解説
.Xr kvm 3
ライブラリは、作動中のシステムとクラッシュダンプを含めて、
カーネル仮想メモリイメージをアクセスするための
一様なインタフェースを提供します。
作動中のシステムへのアクセスは /dev/mem を経由して行われます。
他方、クラッシュダンプは
.Xr savecore 8
が生成するコアファイルを経由して検証できます。
インタフェースは同じように動作します。
メモリは読み取りと書き込みができ、
カーネルシンボルアドレスは効率的に調べることができ、
ユーザプロセスの情報が収集できます。
.Pp
.Fn kvm_open
は、すべての後続する呼び出しの記述子を得るために、
最初に呼び出されます。
.Sh 互換性
kvm インタフェースは最初に SunOS で取込まれました。
かなりの数のプログラムが開発されており、
このインタフェースを使用して後方互換性を
非常に望ましい形にしています。
ほとんどの点で、Sun kvm インタフェースは一貫しており、クリーンです。
従って、インタフェースのジェネリックな部分
(たとえば
.Fn kvm_open ,
.Fn kvm_close ,
.Fn kvm_read ,
.Fn kvm_write
および
.Fn kvm_nlist )
は BSD インタフェースに組み込まれてしまっています。
実際、多くの kvm アプリケーション (たとえばデバッガや統計的モニタ)
はインタフェースのこのサブセットのみを使用します。
プロセス・インタフェースは残されませんでした。
これは移植性の問題ではありません。
すなわち、
プロセスを操作するどのようなコードも本質的にマシンに依存するためです。
.Pp
最後に、Sun kvm エラー報告セマンティクスはうまく定義されていません。
ライブラリは、stderr に自動的にエラーを印字する、
あるいはエラー・メッセージをまったく印字しないのどちらかに設定できます。
後者の場合には、エラーの性質は決定できません。
この問題を克服するために、BSD インタフェースは
.Xr kvm_geterr 3
ルーチンを含み、
該当の記述子における最新のエラー状態に対応する
エラー・メッセージを戻します (印字しません)。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr kvm_close 3 ,
.Xr kvm_getargv 3 ,
.Xr kvm_getenvv 3 ,
.Xr kvm_geterr 3,
.Xr kvm_getloadavg 3 ,
.Xr kvm_getprocs 3 ,
.Xr kvm_nlist 3 ,
.Xr kvm_open 3 ,
.Xr kvm_openfiles 3 ,
.Xr kvm_read 3 ,
.Xr kvm_write 3
