.\" Copyright (c) 1992, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software developed by the Computer Systems
.\" Engineering group at Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory under DARPA contract
.\" BG 91-66 and contributed to Berkeley.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)kvm_getfiles.3	8.2 (Berkeley) 4/19/94
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd April 19, 1994
.Dt KVM_GETFILES 3
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm kvm_getfiles
.Nd オープンしたファイルを調査する
.Sh 書式
.Fd #include <kvm.h>
.Fd #define KERNEL
.Fd #include <sys/file.h>
.Fd #undef KERNEL
.\" .Fa kvm_t *kd
.br
.Ft char *
.Fn kvm_getfiles "kvm_t *kd" "int op" "int arg" "int *cnt"
.Sh 解説
.Fn kvm_getfiles
関数は、
.Fa kd
で示されるカーネルにあるオープンファイルの (サブ) 集合を戻します。
.Fa op
と
.Fa arg
引数は、戻ったファイルの集合を制限するひとつの属性を構成します。
属性は現時点では定義されていません。
.Pp
見つけたプロセス数は参照パラメータ
.Fa cnt
に戻されます。ファイルはファイル構造体の連続した配列で戻されます。
カーネルでの最初のファイル・エントリのアドレスが先行しています。
このメモリは kvm で所有され、引き続く kvm
ライブラリ呼び出しに対しても持続することは保証されていません。
データは保存の必要があればコピーするべきです。
.Sh 戻り値
.Fn kvm_getfiles
は異常終了時にヌルを戻します。
.Sh バグ
このルーチンは kvm インタフェースに属していません。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr kvm 3 ,
.Xr kvm_close 3 ,
.Xr kvm_geterr 3 ,
.Xr kvm_nlist 3 ,
.Xr kvm_open 3 ,
.Xr kvm_openfiles 3 ,
.Xr kvm_read 3 ,
.Xr kvm_write 3
