.\" copyright (c) 1992, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software developed by the Computer Systems
.\" Engineering group at Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory under DARPA contract
.\" BG 91-66 and contributed to Berkeley.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)kvm_geterr.3	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd June 4, 1993
.Dt KVM_GETERR 3
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm kvm_geterr
.Nd kvm 記述子でのエラー・メッセージを獲得する
.Sh 書式
.Fd #include <kvm.h>
.br
.Ft char *
.Fn kvm_geterr "kvm_t *kd"
.Sh 解説
この関数は
.Fa kd
記述子での最新のエラー状態を説明している文字列を戻します。
もしも最新の
.Xr kvm 3
ライブラリ呼び出しがエラーを引き起こさなかったならば、
その結果は定義されていません。戻された文字列は
.Xr kvm 3
が所有するメモリに保存されますので、
メッセージは必要があれば複写して別の場所に保存すべきです。
.Sh バグ
このルーチンは異常終了した
.Fn kvm_openfiles
呼び出しに基づくエラー条件のアクセスに使用できません。
異常終了は
.Dv ヌル
記述子を戻すことで指示されます。
このために、オープンに関するエラーは特別なエラー・バッファに出力され、
.Fn kvm_openfiles
に渡されます。このオプションは
.Fn kvm_open
には使用できません。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr kvm 3 ,
.Xr kvm_close 3 ,
.Xr kvm_getargv 3 ,
.Xr kvm_getenvv 3 ,
.Xr kvm_getprocs 3 ,
.Xr kvm_nlist 3 ,
.Xr kvm_open 3 ,
.Xr kvm_openfiles 3 ,
.Xr kvm_read 3 ,
.Xr kvm_write 3
