.\" Copyright (c) 1992, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software developed by the Computer Systems
.\" Engineering group at Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory under DARPA contract
.\" BG 91-66 and contributed to Berkeley.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)kvm_nlist.3	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\"
.\" jpman %Id%
.\"
.Dd June 4, 1993
.Dt KVM_NLIST 3
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm kvm_nlist
.Nd カーネル・イメージからシンボルテーブルを検索する
.Sh 書式
.Fd #include <kvm.h>
.Fd #include <nlist.h>
.Ft int
.Fn kvm_nlist "kvm_t *kd" "struct nlist *nl"
.Sh 解説
.Fn kvm_nlist
はネームリスト引数
.Fa \&nl
で示されるシンボルテーブルのエントリを検索します。
この引数は nlist 構造体の配列を指し示し、
n_name フィールドが
.Dv ヌル
.Xr (nlist 3
参照) であるエントリで終了しています。
各シンボルは n_name フィールドを使って調べられます。
そしてもし見つけられたら、
対応する n_type フィールドと n_value フィールドが記載されます。
シンボルが見つからなければ、これらのフィールドは 0 にされます。
.Pp
プログラム
.Xr kvm_mkdb 8
は動作中のカーネルのネームリストからデータベースを構築します。
データベースがオープンされたカーネルに一致すれば、
.Fn kvm_nlist
はそれを使って検索を速めます。
.Sh 戻り値
.Fn kvm_nlist
関数は見つけた無効エントリ数を戻します。
カーネルシンボルテーブルが読めなければ、-1 を戻します。
.Sh ファイル
.Bl -tag -width /var/db/kvm_kernel.db -compact
.It Pa /var/db/kvm_kernel.db
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr kvm 3 ,
.Xr kvm_close 3 ,
.Xr kvm_getargv 3 ,
.Xr kvm_getenvv 3 ,
.Xr kvm_geterr 3 ,
.Xr kvm_getprocs 3 ,
.Xr kvm_open 3 ,
.Xr kvm_openfiles 3 ,
.Xr kvm_read 3 ,
.Xr kvm_write 3 ,
.Xr kvm_mkdb 8
