.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1996 Joerg Wunsch
.\"
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE DEVELOPERS ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE DEVELOPERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" %Id: login.3,v 1.4 1997/02/22 15:08:15 peter Exp %
.\" "
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd December 29, 1996
.Os
.Dt LOGIN 3
.Sh 名称
.Nm login
.Nd utmp及びwtmpファイルへのログインレコードの記録
.Sh 書式
.Fd #include <sys/types.h>
.Fd #include <utmp.h>
.Fd #include <libutil.h>
.Ft void
.Fn login "struct utmp *ut"
.Pp
Link with
.Va -lutil
on the
.Xr cc 1
command line.
.Sh 解説
関数
.Fn login
は、
.Xr utmp 5
ファイルの適当なスロットへパスされる
.Ar ut
エントリを記録し (呼び出しプロセスの制御端末に従って)、それを
.Xr wtmp 5
ファイルへアペンドします。
呼び出しプロセスはどちらのファイルに対しても書き込み権限を
持っている必要があります。
.Pp
.Sh 戻り値
なし
.Pp
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr logout 3 ,
.Xr ttyslot 3 ,
.Xr utmp 5 ,
.Xr wtmp 5
.Pp
.Sh バグ
.Fn login
は未加工なインタフェースを提供します。呼び出し側は、
.Va struct utmp
の構造について認識している必要があります。もう少し抽象化が
必要です。
