.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1996 Joerg Wunsch
.\"
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE DEVELOPERS ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE DEVELOPERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" %Id: logout.3,v 1.5 1997/05/11 08:50:32 davidn Exp %
.\" "
.Dd December 29, 1996
.Os
.Dt LOGOUT 3
.Sh 名称
.Nm logout
.Nd utmpファイルからの登録の削除
.Sh 書式
.Fd #include <sys/types.h>
.Fd #include <libutil.h>
.Ft int
.Fn logout "char *line"
.Pp
Link with
.Va -lutil
on the
.Xr cc 1
command line.
.Sh 解説
関数
.Fn logout
は、引数
.Ar line
で指定された (通常 tty 名で) スロットを探して
.Xr utmp 5
ファイルを探索します。スロットがみつからない場合は、
.Em name
及び
.Em host
フィールドが空のレコードで更新され、
タイムスタンプは最新時間に更新されます。
.Sh 戻り値
関数
.Fn Logout
は引数
.Ar line
で指定したスロットが見つからない場合、1 を返して更新し、
そうでない場合は 0 を返します。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr login 3 ,
.Xr utmp 5 ,
.Xr wtmp 5
.Sh バグ
.Fn logout
の呼び出しインタフェースは
.Xr login 3
のインタフェースと整合性がとれていません。
