.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1996 Joerg Wunsch
.\"
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE DEVELOPERS ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE DEVELOPERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" %Id: logwtmp.3,v 1.6 1998/01/16 16:53:30 bde Exp %
.\" "
.Dd December 29, 1996
.Os
.Dt LOGWTMP 3
.Sh 名称
.Nm logwtmp
.Nd wtmp ファイルに新規レコードを追加
.Sh 書式
.Fd #include <sys/types.h>
.Fd #include <libutil.h>
.Ft void
.Fn logwtmp "const char *line" "const char *name" "const char *host"
.Pp
Link with
.Va -lutil
on the
.Xr cc 1
command line.
.Sh 解説
.Fn logwtmp
は、
.Xr wtmp 5
ファイルに新規レコードの追加します。
引数は、
.Ar line ,
.Ar name
と
.Ar host
及び現在時間を与えます。
.Pp
.Ar host
で指定するホスト名の長さが
.Xr wtmp 5
ファイルのホスト名フィールドと合わない場合、最初は、
.Xr gethostbyname 3
により数値のＩＰアドレスに変換しようとします。
これに失敗した場合、ホスト名は
.Qq invalid hostname
(不正ホスト名) として記録されます。
.Pp
呼び出しプロセスは読み込み、書き込みの両方の権限を持っている
必要があります。
.Sh 戻り値
なし
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr gethostbyname 3 ,
.Xr login 3 ,
.Xr wtmp 5
