.\" Copyright (c) 1989, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)lsearch.3	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\"
.Dd June 4, 1993
.Dt LSEARCH 3
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm lsearch ,
.Nm lfind
.Nd 線形探索ルーチン
.Sh 書式
.Fd #include <sys/types.h>
.Ft char *
.Fn lsearch "const void *key" "const void *base" "size_t *nelp" "size_t width" "int (*compar)(void *, void *)"
.Ft char *
.Fn lfind "const void *key" "const void *base" "size_t *nelp" "size_t width" "int (*compar)(void *, void *)"
.Sh 解説
.Bf -symbolic
このインタフェースは、これが書かれるより前に時代遅れでした。
これは互換ライブラリ libcompat から利用可能となっています。
.Ef
.Pp
関数
.Fn lsearch
及び
.Fn lfind
は基本的な線形探索機能を提供します。
.Pp
.Fa base
は配列の先頭を指すポインタです。
引数
.Fa nelp
は配列の現在の要素数であり、
各要素サイズのバイト長は
.Fa width
です。
関数
.Fa compar
は、2 つの要素比較に使用される比較ルーチンです。
この関数は、2 つの引数、
比較対象を指すポインタ
.Fa key
と配列メンバーを指すポインタを、
この順序でとります。
そして、
.Fa key
が指す比較対象が配列のメンバより、小さい、等しい、大きいと
考えられるそれぞれの場合について、
負、 0 、正の整数を返さなければなりません。
.Pp
関数
.Fn lsearch
及び
.Fn lfind
は、
.Fa base
によって参照される配列の中で
.Fa key
が位置するポインタを返します。
もし
.Fa key
が存在しない場合、
.Fn lfind
はヌルポインタを返し、
.Fn lsearch
はそれを配列に追加します。
.Fn lsearch
要素が配列に追加されると、
により配列要素が追加されると、引数
.Fa nelp
によって参照される位置が 1 つ加算されます。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr bsearch 3 ,
.Xr db 3
