.\" Copyright (c) 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" Paul Borman at Krystal Technologies.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)mbrune.3	8.2 (Berkeley) 4/19/94
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd April 19, 1994
.Dt MBRUNE 3
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm mbrune ,
.Nm mbrrune ,
.Nm mbmb
.Nd C のためのマルチバイト文字 (rune) サポート
.Sh 書式
.Fd #include <rune.h>
.Ft char *
.Fn mbrune "const char *string" "rune_t rune"
.Ft char *
.Fn mbrrune "const char *string" "rune_t rune"
.Ft char *
.Fn mbmb "const char *string" "char *pattern"
.Sh 解説
これらのルーチン群は、マルチバイト文字列のための
.Fn strchr ,
.Fn strrchr ,
.Fn strstr
相当の機能を提供します。
.Pp
.Fn mbrune
関数は、
.Ar string
の指す文字列の中で、
.Fa rune
が最初に現れる位置を指します。
終端の
.Dv NUL
文字は文字列の一部とみなされます。
.Fa rune
が
.Ql \e0
である場合は
.Fn mbrune
は終端の
.Ql \e0
を指します。
.Pp
.Fn mbrrune
関数は、文字列
.Fa string
の中で
.Fa rune
が最後に現れる位置を指します。
.Fa rune
が
.Ql \e0
である場合は
.Fn mbrune
は終端の
.Ql \e0
を指します。
.Pp
.Fn mbmb
関数は、
ヌルで終端する文字列
.Fa string
の中で、ヌルで終端する文字列
.Fa pattern
が最初に現れるものを指します。
.Fa pattern
が空文字列である場合、
.Fn mbmb
は
.Fa string
を返します。
.Fa pattern
が
.Fa string
の中のどこにも現れない場合、
.Fn mbmb
は
.Dv NULL
を返します。
それ以外の場合、
.Fn mbmb
は、
.Fa pattern
が最初に現れる先頭の文字のポインタを返します。
.Sh 戻り値
.Fn mbrune
関数は、該当する文字の位置を示すポインタを返します。
文字列中に該当する文字が見つからない場合は
.Dv NULL
を返します。
.Pp
.Fn mbrrune
関数は、該当する文字のポインタを返します。
文字列中に該当する文字が見つからない場合は
.Dv NULL
を返します。
.Pp
.Fn mbmb
関数は、
.Fa pattern
のポインタを返します。
文字列中に該当する
.Fa pattern
が見つからない場合は
.Dv NULL
を返します。
.Pp
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr mbrune 3 ,
.Xr rune 3 ,
.Xr setlocale 3 ,
.Xr euc 4 ,
.Xr utf2 4
.Sh 歴史
.Fn mbrune ,
.Fn mbrrune ,
.Fn mbmb
関数は、Bell Labs の Plan 9 で
.Fn utfrune ,
.Fn utfrrune ,
.Fn utfutf
として現れました。
