.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" Chris Torek and the American National Standards Committee X3,
.\" on Information Processing Systems.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)memcpy.3	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/string/memcpy.3,v 1.3.2.3 2001/12/14 18:33:59 ru Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd June 4, 1993
.Dt MEMCPY 3
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm memcpy
.Nd バイト列のコピー
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.In string.h
.Ft void *
.Fn memcpy "void *dst" "const void *src" "size_t len"
.Sh 解説
.Fn memcpy
関数は、バイト列
.Fa src
からバイト列
.Fa dst
に
.Fa len
個のバイトを
コピーします。
.Sh 戻り値
.Fn memcpy
関数は、
.Fa dst
のオリジナルの値を返します。
.Pp
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr bcopy 3 ,
.Xr memccpy 3 ,
.Xr memmove 3 ,
.Xr strcpy 3
.Pp
.Sh 規格
.Fn memcpy
関数は、
.St -isoC
に適合しています。
.Pp
.Sh バグ
この実装では、
.Fn memcpy
が
.Xr bcopy 3
を用いて実現されているため、バイト列が重なりあっていても構いません。
他の実装では、重なりあっているバイト列をコピーしようとすると
びっくりするかもしれません。
もっと簡単な解決策は、
.Fn memcpy
を使用しないことです。
