.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)psignal.3	8.2 (Berkeley) 2/27/95
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/gen/psignal.3,v 1.10.2.4 2001/12/14 18:33:51 ru Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd February 27, 1995
.Dt PSIGNAL 3
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm psignal ,
.Nm strsignal ,
.Nm sys_siglist ,
.Nm sys_signame
.Nd システムシグナルメッセージ
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.In signal.h
.Ft void
.Fn psignal "unsigned sig" "const char *s"
.Vt extern const char * const sys_siglist[] ;
.Vt extern const char * const sys_signame[] ;
.In string.h
.Ft "char *"
.Fn strsignal "int sig"
.Sh 解説
関数
.Fn psignal
と
.Fn strsignal
は指定されたシグナル番号の説明メッセージ文字列を特定します。
.Pp
.Fn strsignal
関数は、シグナル番号引数
.Fa sig
を取り、対応するメッセージ文字列へのポインタを返します。
.Pp
.Fn psignal
関数は、シグナル番号引数
.Fa sig
を取り、標準エラーへ書き込みます。
引数
.Fa s
が
.Dv NULL
ではなく、ヌル文字を指していない場合、
メッセージ文字列の前に
.Fa s
が標準エラーファイル記述子に書き込まれ、
その直後にコロンとスペースが続きます。
シグナル番号が認識されない場合
.Pq Xr sigaction 2
文字列
.Dq "Unknown signal
が書き込まれます。
.Pp
メッセージ文字列には、
認識されたシグナル番号のインデックスが付いた外部配列
.Va sys_siglist
で直接アクセスできます。外部配列
.Va sys_signame
も同じように使用できます。
この外部配列には、シグナルの簡潔な省略形が小文字で含まれています。
この省略形は、ユーザ入力でシグナル名を認識する場合に便利です。
定義済み変数
.Dv NSIG
には、
.Va sys_siglist
と
.Va sys_signame
の文字列数が含まれています。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr sigaction 2 ,
.Xr perror 3 ,
.Xr strerror 3
.Sh 歴史
.Fn psignal
関数は、
.Bx 4.2
に追加されました。
