.\" Copyright (c) 1996 John Birrell <jb@cimlogic.com.au>.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by John Birrell.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the author nor the names of any co-contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY JOHN BIRRELL AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc_r/man/pthread_setspecific.3,v 1.6.2.5 2001/12/17 10:08:26 ru Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd April 4, 1996
.Dt PTHREAD_SETSPECIFIC 3
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm pthread_setspecific
.Nd スレッド固有のデータ値の設定
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc_r
.Sh 書式
.In pthread.h
.Ft int
.Fn pthread_setspecific "pthread_key_t key" "const void *value"
.Sh 解説
.Fn pthread_setspecific
関数は、以前の
.Fn pthread_key_create
の呼び出しを通して入手した
.Fa key
に、スレッド固有の値を関連付けます。
異なるスレッドは同じキーに対して異なる値を、結びつけることができます。
これらの値は、通常は呼び出しているスレッドによって既に予約されて、
動的に割り当てられたメモリブロックを指すポインタです。
.Pp
.Fn pthread_key_create
から入手したのではない
.Fa key
の値を伴った、または
.Fn pthread_key_delete
によって 
.Fa key 
が削除された後での、
.Fn pthread_setspecific
の呼び出しの結果は未定義です。
.Pp
.Fn pthread_setspecific
はスレッド固有のデータのデストラクタ関数から呼び出されることがあります。
しかしながら、これは記憶領域を失ったり、
無限ループに陥ったりすることがあります。
.Sh 戻り値
問題がない場合は、
.Fn pthread_setspecific
関数は 0 を返します。
問題がある場合は、そのエラーを示すためにエラー番号が返されます。
.Sh エラー
.Fn pthread_setspecific
は以下の場合に失敗します。
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er ENOMEM
.Fa key
と関連付けるための値の十分なメモリがありません。
.It Bq Er EINVAL
.Fa key
の値が無効です。
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr pthread_getspecific 3 ,
.Xr pthread_key_create 3 ,
.Xr pthread_key_delete 3
.Sh 規格
.Fn pthread_setspecific
は
.St -p1003.1-96
に適合しています。
