.\" Copyright (c) 1996 John Birrell <jb@cimlogic.com.au>.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by John Birrell.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the author nor the names of any co-contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY JOHN BIRRELL AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	$Id: pthread_getspecific.3,v 1.1.1.1 1999-12-09 16:25:58 kuriyama Exp $
.\"
.Dd April 4, 1996
.Dt PTHREAD_GETSPECIFIC 3
.Os BSD 4
.Sh 名称
.Nm pthread_getspecific
.Nd スレッドに固有なデータ値を入手
.Sh 書式
.Fd #include <pthread.h>
.Ft void *
.Fn pthread_getspecific "pthread_key_t key"
.Sh 解説
.Fn pthread_getspecific
関数は、呼び出しスレッドに代わって指定された
.Fa key
に現在結合されている値を戻します。
.Pp
.Fn pthread_key_create
で入手していない
.Fa key
値で
.Fn pthread_getspecific
を呼び出したり、
.Fn pthread_key_delete
で
.Fa key
が削除された後で
.Fn pthread_getspecific
を呼び出したりすると、結果は不定になります。
.Pp
.Fn pthread_getspecific
は、スレッドに固有なデータの破壊関数から呼び出されることがあります。
.Sh 戻り値
.Fn pthread_getspecific
関数は、指定された
.Fa key
に関連する、スレッドに固有なデータ値を戻します。
.Fa key
にスレッド固有のデータ値が関連していない場合は
NULL
が戻されます。
.Sh エラー
ありません。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr pthread_key_create 3 ,
.Xr pthread_key_delete 3 ,
.Xr pthread_setspecific 3
.Sh 規格
.Fn pthread_getspecific
は、
ISO/IEC 9945-1 ANSI/IEEE
.Pq Dq Tn POSIX
Std 1003.1 Second Edition 1996-07-12
に準拠しています。
