.\" Copyright (c) 1998 Alex Nash
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	%Id: pthread_rwlock_unlock.3,v 1.1 1998/09/07 19:01:43 alex Exp %
.\"
.Dd August 4, 1998
.Dt PTHREAD_RWLOCK_UNLOCK 3
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm pthread_rwlock_unlock
.Nd 読み書きロックの解除
.Sh 書式
.Fd #include <pthread.h>
.Ft int
.Fn pthread_rwlock_unlock "pthread_rwlock_t *lock"
.Sh 解説
.Fn pthread_rwlock_unlock
関数は、
.Fn pthread_rwlock_rdlock ,
.Fn pthread_rwlock_wrlock ,
.Fn pthread_rwlock_tryrdlock 
あるいは
.Fn pthread_rwlock_trywrlock
で以前に取得した読み書きロックを解除します。
.Sh 戻り値
問題がない場合、
.Fn pthread_rwlock_unlock
関数はゼロを戻します。問題がある場合は、そのエラーを示すエラー番号を戻します。
.Pp
呼び出しスレッドが
.Fa lock
を取得していない場合、結果は不定になります。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr pthread_rwlock_rdlock 3 ,
.Xr pthread_rwlock_wrlock 3
.Sh 規格
.Fn pthread_rwlock_unlock
関数は、
.St -susv2 
に準拠する見込みです。
.SH エラー
.Fn pthread_rwlock_unlock
関数は、以下のような場合にエラーとなります。
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EINVAL 
.Fa lock 
で指定されている値が正しくない場合。
.It Bq Er EPERM
現在のスレッドが読み書きロックを取得していない場合。
.El
.Pp
.Sh 歴史
.Fn pthread_rwlock_unlock
関数は、
.Fx 3.0
に追加されました。
