.\" Copyright (c) 1998 Alex Nash
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc_r/man/pthread_rwlock_rdlock.3,v 1.2.2.2 2001/12/17 10:08:26 ru Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd August 4, 1998
.Dt PTHREAD_RWLOCK_RDLOCK 3
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm pthread_rwlock_rdlock ,
.Nm pthread_rwlock_tryrdlock
.Nd 読取り用の読取り / 書込みロックの獲得
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc_r
.Sh 書式
.In pthread.h
.Ft int
.Fn pthread_rwlock_rdlock "pthread_rwlock_t *lock"
.Ft int
.Fn pthread_rwlock_tryrdlock "pthread_rwlock_t *lock"
.Sh 解説
.Fn pthread_rwlock_rdlock
関数は、
.Fa lock
で与えられた、ロックが現在書込み用に保持されておらず、書込みスレッドが
現在そのロックでブロックされていない、読取り用のロックを獲得します。
読取り用のロックをすぐに獲得できない場合には、呼び出しているスレッドは
そのロックを獲得できるまでブロックします。
.Pp
.Fn pthread_rwlock_tryrdlock
関数は、同じ操作を実行しますが、すぐにロックを獲得できない (すなわち、
ロックが書込み用に保持されている、
または待っている書込みスレッドがある) 場合には、ブロックしません。
.Pp
1 つのスレッドは複数の同時の読取り用ロックを保持することができます。
その場合には、個々の獲得されたのために
.Fn pthread_rwlock_unlock
が 1 度ずつ呼び出されなければなりません。
.Pp
呼び出しているスレッドが書込み用のロックを保持している間の、
読取り用のロックの獲得の結果は、未定義です。
.Sh 実装に関する注
書込み側の飢餓状態を防ぐため、書込み側が読込み側よりも優先されます。
.Sh 戻り値
問題がない場合は、
.Fn pthread_rwlock_rdlock
および
.Fn pthread_rwlock_tryrdlock
関数は 0 を返します。
問題がある場合は、そのエラーを示すためにエラー番号が返されます。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr pthread_rwlock_init 3 ,
.Xr pthread_rwlock_trywrlock 3 ,
.Xr pthread_rwlock_unlock 3 ,
.Xr pthread_rwlock_wrlock 3
.Sh 規格
.Fn pthread_rwlock_rdlock
および
.Fn pthread_rwlock_tryrdlock
関数は、
.St -susv2
に適合しているはずです。
.Sh エラー
.Fn pthread_rwlock_tryrdlock
関数は、以下の場合に失敗します。
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EBUSY
書込みスレッドがロックを保持している、またはブロックされているため、
ロックを獲得できません。
.El
.Pp
.Fn pthread_rwlock_rdlock
および
.Fn pthread_rwlock_tryrdlock
関数は、以下の場合に失敗することがあります。
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EAGAIN
.Fa lock
に対する読取り用のロックの最大数を既に越えているため、
ロックを獲得できません。
.It Bq Er EDEADLK
現在のスレッドが既に書込み用の
.Fa lock
を所有しています。
.It Bq Er EINVAL
.Fa lock
によって指定された値が無効です。
.It Bq Er ENOMEM
ロック (静的に初期化されたロックのみに適用) の初期化のために
十分なメモリがありません。
.El
.Sh 歴史
.Fn pthread_rwlock_rdlock
関数は、
.Fx 3.0
ではじめて登場しました。
