.\" Copyright (c) 1998 Alex Nash
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc_r/man/pthread_rwlock_init.3,v 1.2.2.3 2001/12/17 10:08:26 ru Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd August 4, 1998
.Dt PTHREAD_RWLOCK_INIT 3
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm pthread_rwlock_init
.Nd 読取り / 書込みロックの初期化
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc_r
.Sh 書式
.In pthread.h
.Ft int
.Fn pthread_rwlock_init "pthread_rwlock_t *lock" "const pthread_rwlockattr_t *attr"
.Sh 解説
.Fn pthread_rwlock_init
関数は、
.Fa attr
で指定された属性で、読取り / 書込みロックを初期化するために使用されます。
.Fa attr
が NULL の場合には、デフォルトの読取り / 書込みロック属性が使用されます。
.Pp
既に初期化されているロックでの
.Fn pthread_rwlock_init
の呼び出しの結果は、未定義です。
.Sh 戻り値
問題がない場合は、
.Fn pthread_rwlock_init
関数は 0 を返します。
問題がある場合は、そのエラーを示すためにエラー番号が返されます。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr pthread_rwlock_destroy 3 ,
.Xr pthread_rwlockattr_init 3 ,
.Xr pthread_rwlockattr_setpshared 3
.Sh 規格
.Fn pthread_rwlock_init
関数は、
.St -susv2
に適合しているはずです。
.Sh エラー
.Fn pthread_rwlock_init
関数は、以下の場合に失敗します。
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EAGAIN
ロックを初期化するために必要な (メモリ以外の) リソースが、
システムに不足しています。
.It Bq Er ENOMEM
ロックを初期化するための十分なメモリがありません。
.It Bq Er EPERM
呼び出し側が、その操作を実行するための十分な権利を持っていません。
.El
.Pp
.Fn pthread_rwlock_init
関数は、以下の場合に失敗することがあります。
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EBUSY
.Fa lock
によって参照されているオブジェクトで、
以前に初期化されているがまだ破壊されていない読取り / 書込みロックを
再初期化しようとしていることを、システムが検出しました。
.It Bq Er EINVAL
.Fa attr
によって指定された値が無効です。
.El
.Sh 歴史
.Fn pthread_rwlock_init
関数は、
.Fx 3.0
ではじめて登場しました。
.Sh バグ
PTHREAD_PROCESS_SHARED 属性は、サポートされていません。
