.\" Copyright (c) 1996-1998 John Birrell <jb@cimlogic.com.au>.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by John Birrell.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the author nor the names of any co-contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY JOHN BIRRELL AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc_r/man/pthread_join.3,v 1.7.2.5 2001/12/17 10:08:26 ru Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd April 4, 1996
.Dt PTHREAD_JOIN 3
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm pthread_join
.Nd スレッド終了の待機
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc_r
.Sh 書式
.In pthread.h
.Ft int
.Fn pthread_join "pthread_t thread" "void **value_ptr"
.Sh 解説
.Fn pthread_join
関数は、対象
.Fa thread
がまだ終了していない場合には、その対象
.Fa thread
が終了するまで、呼び出しているスレッドの実行を保留します。
.Pp
NULL ではない
.Fa value_ptr
引数を持つ
.Fn pthread_join
の呼び出しから成功裏に戻った時には、終了したスレッドによって
.Fn pthread_exit
に渡された値が、
.Fa value_ptr
によって参照される位置に格納されます。
.Fn pthread_join
が成功裏に戻った時には、その対象スレッドは既に終了しています。
同じ対象スレッドを指定した複数で同時の
.Fn pthread_join
の呼び出しによる結果は、未定義です。
.Fn pthread_join
を呼び出しているスレッドが取り消された場合には、その対象スレッドは
デタッチされません。
.Pp
既に終了したが持ち受けされずに残っているスレッドは、
[_POSIX_THREAD_THREADS_MAX] に対してカウントされます。
.Pp
.Sh 戻り値
問題がない場合は、
.Fn pthread_join
関数は 0 を返します。
問題がある場合は、そのエラーを示すためにエラー番号が返されます。
.Sh エラー
.Fn pthread_join
は以下の場合に失敗します。
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EINVAL
.Fa thread
によって指定された値が、
待機されることが可能なスレッドを参照していないことを検出しました。
.It Bq Er ESRCH
与えられたスレッド ID,
.Fa thread
によって指定されたものと一致するスレッドを見つけることができません。
.It Bq Er EDEADLK
デッドロックを検出しました。または、
.Fa thread
の値が呼び出しているスレッドを指定しています。
.El
.Pp
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr wait 2 ,
.Xr pthread_create 3
.Sh 規格
.Fn pthread_join
は
.St -p1003.1-96
に適合しています。
