.\" Copyright (c) 1996 John Birrell <jb@cimlogic.com.au>.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by John Birrell.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the author nor the names of any co-contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY JOHN BIRRELL AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc_r/man/pthread_key_delete.3,v 1.6.2.5 2001/12/17 10:08:26 ru Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd April 4, 1996
.Dt PTHREAD_KEY_DELETE 3
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm pthread_key_delete
.Nd スレッド固有のデータキーの削除
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc_r
.Sh 書式
.In pthread.h
.Ft int
.Fn pthread_key_delete "pthread_key_t key"
.Sh 解説
.Fn pthread_key_delete
関数は、以前に
.Fn pthread_key_create
によって返されたスレッド固有のデータキーを削除します。
.Fa key
に関連付けられたスレッド固有のデータ値は、
.Fn pthread_key_delete
が呼び出される時点で NULL である必要はありません。
全てのアプリケーション記憶領域の解放、または削除されたキーに関連した
データ構造や全てのスレッドの中のスレッド固有のデータの全ての
クリーンアップ動作の実行は、アプリケーションの責務です。
このクリーンアップは
.Fn pthread_key_delete
が呼び出される前後で実行されることが可能です。
.Fn pthread_key_delete
の呼び出しの後で、
.Fa key
を使用しようとする全ての試みの結果は、不定動作になります。
.Pp
.Fn pthread_key_delete
関数は、デストラクタ関数の中から呼び出すことが可能です。
デストラクタ関数は、
.Fn pthread_key_delete
からは呼び出されません。
.Fa key
に関連付けられているかもしれない全てのデストラクタ関数は、
スレッドの終了時にはもはや呼び出されません。
.Sh 戻り値
問題がない場合は、
.Fn pthread_key_delete
関数は 0 を返します。
問題がある場合は、そのエラーを示すためにエラー番号が返されます。
.Sh エラー
.Fn pthread_key_delete
は以下の場合に失敗します。
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EINVAL
.Fa key
の値が無効です。
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr pthread_getspecific 3 ,
.Xr pthread_key_create 3 ,
.Xr pthread_setspecific 3
.Sh 規格
.Fn pthread_key_delete
は
.St -p1003.1-96
に適合しています。
