.\" Copyright (c) 1998 Alex Nash
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	%Id: pthread_rwlockattr_setpshared.3,v 1.1 1998/09/07 19:01:43 alex Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd August 4, 1998
.Dt PTHREAD_RWLOCKATTR_SETPSHARED 3
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm pthread_rwlockattr_setpshared
.Nd プロセス共有属性を設定
.Sh 書式
.Fd #include <pthread.h>
.Ft int
.Fn pthread_rwlockattr_setpshared "pthread_rwlockattr_t *attr" "int *pshared"
.Sh 解説
.Fn pthread_rwlockattr_setpshared
関数は、
.Fa attr
のプロセス共有属性を
.Fa pshared
が参照する値に設定します。
.Fa pshared
は、以下のうちどちらかの
値になります。
.Bl -hang -offset flag -width 123456789012345678901234
.It Ar PTHREAD_PROCESS_SHARED
読み書きロックが常駐するメモリにアクセス
できるプロセスのスレッドが、ロックを操作できます。
.It Ar PTHREAD_PROCESS_PRIVATE
読み書きロックを初期化したスレッドと同じ
プロセスで作成されたスレッドのみが、ロックを操作できます。これが
デフォルト値です。
.El
.Sh 戻り値
問題がない場合、
.Fn pthread_rwlockattr_setpshared
関数はゼロを戻します。
問題がある場合は、そのエラーを示すエラー番号を戻します。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr pthread_rwlock_init 3 ,
.Xr pthread_rwlockattr_init 3 ,
.Xr pthread_rwlockattr_setpshared 3
.Sh 規格
.Fn pthread_rwlockattr_setpshared
関数は、
.St -susv2
に準拠する見込みです。
.Sh エラー
.Fn pthread_rwlockattr_setpshared
は、以下のような場合にエラー
となります。
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EINVAL
.Fa attr
か
.Fa pshared
で指定された値が正しくない場合。
.El
.Sh 歴史
.Fn pthread_rwlockattr_setpshared
関数は、
.Fx 3.0
に追加されました。
.Sh バグ
PTHREAD_PROCESS_SHARED 属性はサポートされていません。
