.\" Copyright (c) 1997 Brian Cully <shmit@kublai.com>
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of the author nor the names of any co-contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY JOHN BIRRELL AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd July 30, 1998
.Dt PTHREAD_CLEANUP_PUSH 3
.Os BSD 4
.Sh 名称
.Nm pthread_cleanup_push
.Nd クリーンアップ関数を追加し、スレッドが終了したときに実行
.Sh 書式
.Fd #include <pthread.h>
.Ft void
.Fn pthread_cleanup_push "void (*cleanup_routine)(void *)" "void *arg"
.Sh 解説
.Fn pthread_cleanup_push
関数は、クリーンアップハンドラのスタックの最上位に
.Fa cleanup_routine
を追加します。このハンドラは、
現行スレッドが終了した場合に呼び出されます。
.Pp
.Fn pthread_cleanup_push
を呼び出すと、
.Fa arg
が唯一の引数として渡されます。
.Sh 戻り値
.Fn pthread_cleanup_push
は値を戻しません。
.Sh 誤り
ありません。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr pthread_cleanup_pop 3 ,
.Xr pthread_exit 3
.Sh 規格
.Fn pthread_cleanup_push
は、ISO/IEC 9945-1 ANSI/IEEE
.Pq Dq Tn POSIX
Std 1003.1 Second Edition 1996-07-12 に準拠しています。
