.\" Copyright (c) 1997 Brian Cully <shmit@kublai.com>
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of the author nor the names of any co-contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY JOHN BIRRELL AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc_r/man/pthread_cond_destroy.3,v 1.6.2.5 2001/12/17 10:08:26 ru Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd July 28, 1998
.Dt PTHREAD_COND_DESTROY 3
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm pthread_cond_destroy
.Nd 条件変数の破壊
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc_r
.Sh 書式
.In pthread.h
.Ft int
.Fn pthread_cond_destroy "pthread_cond_t *cond"
.Sh 解説
.Fn pthread_cond_destroy
関数は、条件変数
.Fa cond
によって割り当てられたリソースを解放します。
.Sh 戻り値
問題がない場合は、
.Fn pthread_cond_destroy
関数は 0 を返します。
問題がある場合は、そのエラーを示すためにエラー番号が返されます。
.Sh エラー
.Fn pthread_cond_destroy
は以下の場合に失敗します。
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EINVAL
.Fa cond
によって指定された値が無効です。
.It Bq Er EBUSY
変数
.Fa cond
が別のスレッドによってロックされています。
.El
.Pp
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr pthread_cond_broadcast 3 ,
.Xr pthread_cond_init 3 ,
.Xr pthread_cond_signal 3 ,
.Xr pthread_cond_timedwait 3 ,
.Xr pthread_cond_wait 3
.Sh 規格
.Fn pthread_cond_destroy
は
.St -p1003.1-96
に適合しています。
