.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" Chris Torek and the American National Standards Committee X3,
.\" on Information Processing Systems.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)putc.3	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/stdio/putc.3,v 1.5.2.3 2001/12/14 18:33:57 ru Exp %
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd June 4, 1993
.Dt PUTC 3
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm fputc ,
.Nm putc ,
.Nm putchar ,
.Nm putw
.Nd キャラクタかワードをストリームに出力
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.In stdio.h
.Ft int
.Fn fputc "int c" "FILE *stream"
.Ft int
.Fn putc "int c" "FILE *stream"
.Ft int
.Fn putchar "int c"
.Ft int
.Fn putw "int w" "FILE *stream"
.Sh 解説
.Fn fputc
関数は、(``unsigned char'' に変換された) 文字
.Fa c
を
.Fa stream
が指す出力ストリームに出力します。
.Pp
.Fn putc
マクロは、
.Fn fputc
と本質的に同じように動作しますが、
インラインに展開されるマクロです。
.Fa stream
を複数回評価することがあるので、
.Fn putc
には、副作用がおきる式を引数として指定しないでください。
.Pp
.Fn putchar
マクロは
.Fn putc
と同じですが、出力ストリームは
.Em stdout
です。
.Pp
.Fn putw
関数は、指定された
.Em int
を指定された出力ストリーム
.Fa stream
に書き込みます。
.Sh 戻り値
.Fn fputc ,
.Fn putc ,
.Fn putchar
関数は、書き込んだ文字を返します。
エラーが発生した場合は
.Dv EOF
を返します。
.Fn putw
は、問題がない場合は 0 を返し、
書込みエラーが発生した場合、
または読込み専用ストリームに書き込もうとした場合は
.Dv EOF
を返します。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr ferror 3 ,
.Xr fopen 3 ,
.Xr getc 3 ,
.Xr stdio 3
.Sh 規格
.Fn fputc ,
.Fn putc ,
.Fn putchar
関数は、
.St -isoC
に適合しています。
.Fn putw
関数は、
.At v6
で登場しました。
.Sh バグ
.Em int
のサイズとバイトオーダはマシンによって異なるので、
移植可能アプリケーションに
.Fn putw
を使用しないでください。
