.\" Copyright (c) 1989, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)pwcache.3	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/9/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/gen/pwcache.3,v 1.6.2.4 2001/12/14 18:33:51 ru Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd June 9, 1993
.Dt PWCACHE 3
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm pwcache
.Nd パスワードエントリとグループエントリのキャッシュ
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.In stdlib.h
.Ft char *
.Fn user_from_uid "unsigned long uid" "int nouser"
.Ft char *
.Fn group_from_gid "unsigned long gid" "int nogroup"
.Sh 解説
.Fn user_from_uid
関数は、引数
.Fa uid
に関連するユーザ名を戻します。ユーザ名はキャッシュされるので、同じ
.Fa uid
で何度も呼び出す場合は、
.Xr getpwuid 3
を呼び出す必要はありません。
.Fa uid
にユーザが関連していない場合は、引数
.Fa nouser
が 0 であれば、
.Fa uid
のストリング表現にポインタが戻されます。0 以外である場合は
.Dv NULL
ポインタが戻されます。
.Pp
.Fn group_from_gid
関数は、引数
.Fa gid
に関連するグループ名を戻します。グループ名はキャッシュされるので、同じ
.Fa gid
で何度も呼び出す場合は、
.Xr getgrgid 3
を呼び出す必要はありません。
.Fa gid
にグループが関連していない場合は、引数
.Fa nogroup
が 0 であれば、
.Fa gid
のストリング表現にポインタが戻されます。0 以外である場合は
.Dv NULL
ポインタが戻されます。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr getgrgid 3 ,
.Xr getpwuid 3
.Sh 歴史
.Fn user_from_uid
関数と
.Fn group_from_gid
関数は、
.Bx 4.4
ではじめて登場しました。
