.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" the American National Standards Committee X3, on Information
.\" Processing Systems.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)rand.3	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/stdlib/rand.3,v 1.4.2.5 2001/12/14 18:33:58 ru Exp %
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd May 25, 1999
.Dt RAND 3
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm rand ,
.Nm srand ,
.Nm rand_r
.Nd 不十分な乱数ジェネレータ
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.In stdlib.h
.Ft void
.Fn srand "unsigned seed"
.Ft int
.Fn rand void
.Ft int
.Fn rand_r "unsigned *ctx"
.Sh 解説
.Bf -symbolic
このインタフェースは、
.Xr random 3
に置き換えられました。
.Ef
.Pp
.Fn rand
関数は、0 から
.Dv RAND_MAX
(ヘッダファイル
.Aq Pa stdlib.h
で定義) の範囲で、疑似乱整数のシーケンスを算出します。
.Pp
.Fn srand
関数は、引数
.Fa seed
を、
.Fn rand
が戻す疑似乱数の新しいシーケンスの種として設定します。
このシーケンスは、同じ値の種を用いて
.Fn srand
を呼び出すことで繰り返すことができます。
.Pp
.Fa 種
の値を指定しないと、これらの関数は自動的に 1 を種として使用します。
.Pp
.Fn rand_r
は、
.Fn rand
と同じ機能を提供します。
コンテキスト毎の値である
.Fa ctx
へのポインタは、呼び出し側が提供する必要があります。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr random 3
.Sh 規格
.Fn rand
関数と
.Fn srand
関数は、
.St -isoC
に適合しています。
.Pp
.Fn rand_r
関数は POSIX.4a Draft #6 ドキュメントで提案されています。
