.\" Copyright (c) 1994
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" Jan-Simon Pendry.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)realpath.3	8.2 (Berkeley) 2/16/94
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/stdlib/realpath.3,v 1.7.2.3 2001/12/14 18:33:58 ru Exp %
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd February 16, 1994
.Dt REALPATH 3
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm realpath
.Nd 正規の絶対パス名を戻す
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.In sys/param.h
.In stdlib.h
.Ft "char *"
.Fn realpath "const char *pathname" "char resolved_path[MAXPATHLEN]"
.Sh 解説
.Fn realpath
関数は、
.Fa pathname
のすべてのシンボリックリンク、余分な
.Dq /
キャラクタ、
.Pa /./
と
.Pa /../
のリファレンスを分析し、
.Fa resolved_path
が参照するメモリに絶対パス名をコピーします。
.Fa resolved_path
引数は、少なくとも
.Dv MAXPATHLEN
キャラクタを保存できるバッファを参照している必要があります。
.Pp
.Fn realpath
関数は、絶対パスと相対パスの両方を分析し、
.Fa pathname
に対応する絶対パス名を戻します。
.Fa pathname
の最後のコンポーネント以外は、
.Fn readpath
を呼び出したときに存在している必要があります。
.Sh 戻り値
.Fn realpath
関数は、問題がなければ
.Fa resolved_path
を戻します。
エラーが発生した場合、
.Fn realpath
は
.Dv NULL
を戻し、問題となったパス名を
.Fa resolved_path
に入れます。
.Sh エラー
.Fn realpath
関数がエラーとなると、ライブラリ関数
.Xr chdir 2 ,
.Xr close 2 ,
.Xr fchdir 2 ,
.Xr lstat 2 ,
.Xr open 2 ,
.Xr readlink 2 ,
.Xr getcwd 3
で指定されているエラーを外部変数
.Va errno
に設定することがあります。
.Sh 警告
この
.Fn realpath
の実装は、Solaris での実装とは多少異なります。
.Bx 4.4
のバージョンは常に絶対パス名を戻しますが、Solaris での実装は、
ある状況下で、相対パス名が指定されると相対パス名を戻します。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr getcwd 3
.Sh 歴史
.Fn realpath
関数は、
.Bx 4.4
ではじめて登場しました。
