.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)scandir.3	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/gen/scandir.3,v 1.3.2.4 2001/12/14 18:33:51 ru Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd June 4, 1993
.Dt SCANDIR 3
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm scandir ,
.Nm alphasort
.Nd ディレクトリを走査する
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.In sys/types.h
.In dirent.h
.Ft int
.Fn scandir "const char *dirname" "struct dirent ***namelist" "int \\*(lp*select\\*(rp\\*(lpstruct dirent *\\*(rp" "int \\*(lp*compar\\*(rp\\*(lpconst void *, const void *\\*(rp"
.Ft int
.Fn alphasort "const void *d1" "const void *d2"
.Sh 解説
.Fn scandir
関数はディレクトリ
.Fa dirname
を読み取り、
.Xr malloc 3
を使用してディレクトリエントリを指すポインタの配列を作成します。
そして配列内のエントリの数を返します。
ディレクトリエントリの配列を指すポインタは、
.Fa namelist
が参照する位置に保存されます。
.Pp
.Fa select
パラメータは、どのエントリを配列に入れるかを選択するために
.Fn scandir
によって呼び出される、ユーザ定義サブルーチンを指すポインタです。
選択ルーチンにはディレクトリエントリを指すポインタが渡されます。
また、ディレクトリエントリを配列に入れる場合は非
0 の値を返さなくてはなりません。
.Fa select
が
NULL
の場合、すべてのディレクトリエントリが組み入れられます。
.Pp
.Fa compar
パラメータは、ユーザ定義サブルーチンを指すポインタであり、
このサブルーチンは完成した配列をソートするために
.Xr qsort 3
に渡されます。このポインタが
NULL
の場合、配列はソートされません。
.Pp
.Fn alphasort
関数は、
.Fa compar
パラメータに使用できるルーチンで、配列をアルファベット順にソートします。
.Pp
配列用に割当てられたメモリを
.Xr free 3
で割当て解除できます。その場合、
配列内の各ポインタを解放してから、配列自体を解放してください。
.Sh 診断
ディレクトリが読み取り用に開けない場合、または
.Xr malloc 3
がすべてのデータ構造を保持するのに十分なメモリを割り当てできない場合は
\-1 を返します。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr directory 3 ,
.Xr malloc 3 ,
.Xr qsort 3 ,
.Xr dir 5
.Sh 歴史
.Fn scandir
と
.Fn alphasort
関数は
.Bx 4.2
で登場しました。
