.\" Copyright (c) 1989, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)setmode.3	8.2 (Berkeley) 4/28/95
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd April 28, 1995
.Dt SETMODE 3
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm getmode ,
.Nm setmode
.Nd モードビットを更新する
.Sh 書式
.Fd #include <unistd.h>
.Ft mode_t
.Fn getmode "const void *set" "mode_t mode"
.Ft void *
.Fn setmode "const char *mode_str"
.Sh 解説
.Fn getmode
関数は、
.Fa set
が指す値によって変更された様にファイルパーミッションビット
.Fa mode
のコピーを返します。モードビットだけが変更されるのに対し、
ファイルモードの他の部分を調査できます。
.Pp
.Fn setmode
関数は、
.Xr chmod 1
で述べた様に絶対値
(8
進数
)
またはシンボリック値を引数として取り、
.Fn getmode
に与えられるモード値を指すポインタを返します。
ファイル作成マスクには相対的なシンボリック値もあるので、
.Fn setmode
は
.Xr umask 2
を呼び出すことがあります。これが生じた場合、ファイル作成マスクは
.Fn setmode
が復帰する前に復元されます。
呼び出しプログラムがファイル作成マスクの値を
.Fn setmode
を呼び出した後で変更する場合、将来のファイルモードを正しく更新するために
.Fn getmode
を呼ぶなら、
.Fn setmode
をもう一度呼び出す必要があります。
.Pp
.Fn setmode
に渡されたモードが無効な場合、または戻り値に関する
メモリを割り当てできない場合、
.Fn setmode
は
.Dv NULL
を返します。
.Pp
.Fn setmode
から返された値は
.Fn malloc
から得られ、プログラムがその値に対する処理を終えた時、
通常は
.Fn getmode
の呼び出しの後に、
.Fn free
でシステムに返す必要があります。
.Sh エラー
.Fn setmode
関数は、処理に失敗して
errno
をライブラリルーチン
.Xr malloc 3
で指定されたエラーのどれかに設定することがあります。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr chmod 1 ,
.Xr stat 2 ,
.Xr umask 2 ,
.Xr malloc 3
.Sh 歴史
.Fn getmode
関数と
.Fn setmode
関数は
.Bx 4.4
で最初に登場しました。
