.\" Copyright (c) 1985, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)siginterrupt.3	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\"
.Dd June 4, 1993
.Dt SIGINTERRUPT 3
.Os BSD 4.3
.Sh 名称
.Nm siginterrupt
.Nd シグナルがシステムコールを中断できるようにする
.Sh 書式
.Fd #include <signal.h>
.Ft int
.Fn siginterrupt "int sig" "int flag"
.Sh 解説
.Fn siginterrupt
関数を使用して、システムコールが指定のシグナルによって割り込まれたときに、
システムコール再開始の動作を変更します。
フラグが偽 (0) の場合、システムコールは、指定のシグナルによって割り込みされ、
しかもデータがまだ転送されていない場合に再開始されます。
システムコールの再開始は、
.Bx 4.2
以降のデフォルトの動作であり、
.Tn FreeBSD
での
.Xr signal 3
のデフォルトの
動作です。
.Pp
フラグが真 (1) の場合、
システムコールの再開始は無効になります。
システムコールが指定のシグナルによって割り込みされ、
しかもデータが転送されていない場合、
システムコールは \-1 で返り、グローバル変数
.Va errno
は
.Dv EINTR
に設定されます。
データの転送を開始した中断されたシステムコールは、
実際に転送されたデータの量を返します。
システムコール割り込みは、
.Bx 4.1
と
.At V
システムに見られるシグナルのふるまいです。
.Pp
新しい
.Bx 4.2
シグナル処理のセマンティクスはどちらにしても変更されていません。
最も注目すべきは、シグナルハンドラは、後続の
.Xr sigaction 2
呼び出しによって明示的に変更されるまで、そして
.Xr sigaction 2
で文書化したようにシグナルマスクが動作するまで、
必ずインストールされたままになることです。
プログラムは、プログラムの実行の間、必要なだけ頻繁に再起動可能な
システムコール操作と割り込み可能なシステムコール操作の間で切り替えできます。
.Pp
シグナルハンドラの実行の間に
.Fn siginterrupt 3
を呼び出すと、捕捉される次のシグナルで
新しい処置が行われます。
.Sh 注
このライブラリルーチンは、
.Bx 4.2
では利用できない
.Xr sigaction 2
システムコールの拡張を使用しています。
ですから、後方互換性が必要な場合、これは使用しないでください。
.Sh 戻り値
値 0 は、呼び出しが成功したことを示します。
値 \-1 は無効なシグナル番号が与えられたことを示します。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr sigaction 2 ,
.Xr sigblock 2 ,
.Xr sigpause 2 ,
.Xr sigsetmask 2 ,
.Xr signal 3
.Sh 歴史
.Fn siginterrupt
関数は
.Bx 4.3
で現れました。
