.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)sigsetops.3	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\"
.Dd June 4, 1993
.Dt SIGSETOPS 3
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm sigemptyset ,
.Nm sigfillset ,
.Nm sigaddset ,
.Nm sigdelset ,
.Nm sigismember
.Nd 信号セットを操作
.Sh 書式
.Fd #include <signal.h>
.Ft int
.Fn sigemptyset "sigset_t *set"
.Ft int
.Fn sigfillset "sigset_t *set"
.Ft int
.Fn sigaddset "sigset_t *set" "int signo"
.Ft int
.Fn sigdelset "sigset_t *set" "int signo"
.Ft int
.Fn sigismember "const sigset_t *set" "int signo"
.Sh 解説
これらの関数は、
.Fa sigset_t
に保存された信号セットを操作します。
.Fa sigset_t
型の各オブジェクトについて
.Fn sigemptyset
または
.Fn sigfillset
のどちらかを呼び出した後で、オブジェクトを他のように使用します。
.Pp
.Fn sigemptyset
関数は信号セットを空に初期化します。
.Pp
.Fn sigfillset
関数は、信号セットをすべての信号が含まれるように初期化します。
.Pp
.Fn sigaddset
関数は、信号セットに、指定の信号
.Fa signo
を追加します。
.Pp
.Fn sigdelset
関数は、信号セットから、指定の信号
.Fa signo
を削除します。
.Pp
.Fn sigismember
関数は、指定の信号
.Fa signo
が信号セットに含まれるかどうかを返します。
.Pp
これらの関数は
インクルードファイル <signal.h> 内にマクロとして備えられています。
(#undef
.Em 名前
を使用して)名前が未定義であっても実際の関数は利用できます 。
.Sh 戻り値
.Fn sigismember
関数は、信号がセットのメンバである場合は
1 を返します。
そうでない場合は 0 を返します。
他の関数は 0 を返します。
.Sh エラー
現時点ではエラーは検出されていません。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr kill 2 ,
.Xr sigaction 2 ,
.Xr sigsuspend 2
.Sh 規格
これらの関数は、
.St -p1003.1-88
によって定義されています。
