.\" Copyright (c) 1985, 1991 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     from: @(#)sqrt.3	6.4 (Berkeley) 5/6/91
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/msun/man/sqrt.3,v 1.6.2.3 2001/12/17 10:08:36 ru Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd May 6, 1991
.Dt SQRT 3
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm cbrt ,
.Nm cbrtf ,
.Nm sqrt ,
.Nm sqrtf
.Nd 立方根および平方根関数
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libm
.Sh 書式
.In math.h
.Ft double
.Fn cbrt "double x"
.Ft float
.Fn cbrtf "float x"
.Ft double
.Fn sqrt "double x"
.Ft float
.Fn sqrtf "float x"
.Sh 解説
.Fn cbrt
および
.Fn cbrtf
関数は、
.Ar x
の立方根を計算します。
.Pp
.Fn sqrt
および
.Fn sqrtf
関数は、非負の
.Ar x
の平方根を計算します。
.Sh 戻り値
.Fn cbrt
および
.Fn cbrtf
関数は、要求された立方根を返します。
.Fn sqrt
および
.Fn sqrtf
関数は、エラーが発生しなければ、要求された平方根を返します。
.Tn VAX
および
.Tn Tahoe
では、負の
.Fa x
の
.Fn sqrt
を取ることの試みは、エラーを引き起こします。
この場合には、グローバル変数
.Va errno
を
.Er EDOM
に設定し、予約されたオペランドフォルトが生成されます。
.Sh エラー (丸めなどによるもの)
.Fn cbrt
関数は、0.7
.Em ulp
の範囲内で正確です。
.Pp
.Tn VAX
上の
.Fn sqrt
関数は、0.501
.Em ulp
の範囲内で正確です。
.Tn IEEE
754 に適合しているマシン上の sqrt は、実施中の丸め方法に従って、
正確に丸められます。
その誤差は、デフォルトの方法 (四捨五入) では、
.Em ulp
の半分未満です。
.Em ulp
とは、最後に繰り上げられた位置の位 (
.Em U Ns nit
in the
.Em L Ns ast
.Em P Ns lacce
) です。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr math 3
.Sh 規格
.Fn sqrt
関数は、
.St -isoC
に適合しています。
.Sh 歴史
.Fn cbrt
関数は、
.Bx 4.3
で登場しました。
