.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" Chris Torek.
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)strcasecmp.3	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/9/93
.\"
.\" jpman %Id%
.\"
.Dd June 9, 1993
.Dt STRCASECMP 3
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm strcasecmp ,
.Nm strncasecmp
.Nd 大文字小文字を無視した文字列の比較
.Sh 書式
.Fd #include <string.h>
.Ft int
.Fn strcasecmp "const char *s1" "const char *s2"
.Ft int
.Fn strncasecmp "const char *s1" "const char *s2" "size_t len"
.Sh 解説
.Fn strcasecmp
および
.Fn strncasecmp
関数は、ナル文字で終了する文字列
.Fa s1
および
.Fa s2
を比較して、それぞれの文字を小文字に変換した後に
.Fa s1
が
.Fa s2
よりも辞書学的に大きいか、等しいか、あるいは小さいかに応じて、
それぞれ、0 より大きい、0 に等しい、
あるいは 0 より小さい整数を返します。
文字列自体は修正されません。比較は、
.Sq Li \e200
が
.Ql \e0
よりも大きくなるように、符号なしキャラクタを使って行います。
.Pp
.Fn strncasecmp
は、最大で
.Fa len
個の文字を比較します。
.Sh 参照
.Xr bcmp 3 ,
.Xr memcmp 3 ,
.Xr strcmp 3 ,
.Xr strcoll 3 ,
.Xr strxfrm 3
.Sh 歴史
.Fn strcasecmp
および
.Fn strncasecmp
関数は、最初に
.Bx 4.4
に現れました。
