.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)strmode.3	8.3 (Berkeley) 7/28/94
.\"
.\" jpman %Id%
.\"
.Dd July 28, 1994
.Dt STRMODE 3
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm strmode
.Nd inode ステータス情報をシンボル文字列に変換
.Sh 書式
.Fd #include <string.h>
.Ft void
.Fn strmode "mode_t mode" "char *bp"
.Sh 解説
.Fn strmode
関数は、ファイル
.Fa mode
(inode に結合されるタイプと許可の情報については、
.Xr stat 2
を参照) をシンボル文字列に変換し、それを
.Fa bp
で参照される場所に保存します。
保存されるこの文字列は、長さが 11 文字で最後にナル文字が付きます。
.Pp
最初の文字は inode タイプで、次のいずれかになります :
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width flag -offset indent -compact
.It \-
通常ファイル
.It b
ブロック型特殊ファイル
.It c
キャラクタ型特殊ファイル
.It d
ディレクトリ
.It l
シンボリックリンク
.It p
fifo
.It s
ソケット
.It w
whiteout
.It ?
未知の inode タイプ
.El
.Pp
次に続く 9 つの文字は、3 文字毎に 3 つの許可セットをコード化します。
最初の 3 つの文字はファイル所有者のための許可で、
2 番目の 3 文字はファイルが所属するグループのためのもの、
そして 3 番目の 3 文字は
``その他'' またはデフォルトのユーザーセット用です。
.Pp
許可チェックは、できる限り明確に限定して行われます。
最初の許可セットでファイルの所有者に対して
読み取り許可が拒否された場合は、
ファイルの所有者はそのファイルを読み取ることができません。
このことは、その所有者がファイルのグループに入っており、
そのグループ許可によって読み取り許可が与えられている場合、
または読み取りを許可する ``その他'' の許可が
与えられている場合でも当てはまります。
.Pp
3 文字セットの最初の文字が ``r'' である場合は、
そのファイルはそのユーザーセットに対して読み取り可能です。
文字がダッシュ ``\-'' 場合は、読み取りできません。
.Pp
3 文字セットの 2 番目の文字が ``w'' である場合は、
そのファイルはそのユーザーセットに対して書込み可能です。
文字がダッシュ ``\-'' である場合は、書込みできません。
.Pp
3 番目の文字は、次の該当する文字です :
.Bl -tag -width xxxx
.It S
キャラクタが所有者許可の一部であり、
ファイルが実行可能ではないか、
またはディレクトリが所有者によって検索可能ではなく、
set-user-id ビットが設定されている場合。
.It S
キャラクタがグループ許可の一部であり、
ファイルが実行可能ではないか、
またはディレクトリがグループによって検索可能ではなく、
set-group-id ビットが設定されている場合。
.It T
キャラクタがその他の許可の一部であり、
ファイルが実行可能ではないか、
またはディレクトリがその他のものによって検索可能ではなく、
``sticky''
.Pq Dv S_ISVTX
ビットが設定されている場合。
.It s
キャラクタが所有者許可の一部であり、
ファイルが実行可能であるか、
またはディレクトリが所有者によって検索可能であり、
set-user-id ビットが設定されている場合。
.It s
キャラクタがグループ許可の一部であり、
ファイルが実行可能であるか、
またはディレクトリがグループによって検索可能であり、
set-group-id ビットが設定されている場合。
.It t
キャラクタがその他の許可の一部であり、
ファイルが実行可能であるか、
またはディレクトリがその他のものによって検索可能であり、
``sticky''
.Pq Dv S_ISVTX
ビットが設定されている場合。
.It x
ファイルが実行可能であるか、またはディレクトリが検索可能。
.It \-
上のいずれにも該当しない。
.El
.Pp
最後の文字は
inode に結合された別のアクセス制御方法が何かある場合は、
プラス記号 ``+'' です。
それ以外の場合は、文字はスペースになります。
.Sh 戻り値
.Fn strmode
関数は、常に 0 を返します。
.Sh 参照
.Xr chmod 1 ,
.Xr find 1 ,
.Xr stat 2 ,
.Xr getmode 3 ,
.Xr setmode 3
.Sh 歴史
.Fn strmode
関数は最初
.Bx 4.4
に現れました。
