.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" Chris Torek.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)strsep.3	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/9/93
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd June 9, 1993
.Dt STRSEP 3
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm strsep
.Nd 文字列の分割
.Sh 書式
.Fd #include <string.h>
.Ft char *
.Fn strsep "char **stringp" "const char *delim"
.Sh 解説
.Fn strsep
関数は、
.Fa *stringp
により参照される文字列の中で、文字列
.Fa delim
中のいずれかの文字 ( または終端の
.Ql \e0
) のうちで最初に出現する文字の位置をを探し、その箇所を
.Ql \e0
で置き換えます。
区切り文字 ( または文字列の末尾に達した場合は
.Dv NULL
) の次の文字の位置は、
.Fa *stringp
に格納されます。
.Fa *stringp
の元の値は戻り値となります。
.Pp
「空」のフィールド、すなわち、
2 つの隣接する区切り文字によって生じたフィールドは、
.Fa *stringp
の中に返されたポインタが参照する位置を
.Ql \e0
と比較することで検出可能です。
.Pp
.Fa *stringp
が最初から
.Dv NULL
である場合は、
.Fn strsep
は
.Dv NULL
を返します。
.Sh 例
以下では、
空白文字によって区切られたトークンで構成されている文字列を、
引数ベクタへと解釈するために
.Fn strsep
を使っています。
.Bd -literal -offset indent
char **ap, *argv[10], *inputstring;

for (ap = argv; (*ap = strsep(&inputstring, " \et")) != NULL;)
        if (**ap != '\e0')
                if (++ap >= &argv[10])
                        break;
.Ed
.Sh 歴史
.Fn strsep
関数は、
.Fn strtok
関数を置き換えるものとして考えられています。
.Fn strtok
関数は移植性の点では好ましいのですが (
.St -ansiC
に準拠しています ) 、
空のフィールドを扱う、すなわち、
2 つの隣接する区切り文字によって区切られたフィールドを検出するとか、
一回で複数の文字列に対して使用する、といったことができません。
.Fn strsep
関数は、最初に
.Bx 4.4
に現れました。
