.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" the American National Standards Committee X3, on Information
.\" Processing Systems.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)strtod.3	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd June 4, 1993
.Dt STRTOD 3
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm strtod
.Nd 
.Tn ASCII
文字列を double に変換
.Sh 書式
.Fd #include <stdlib.h>
.Ft double
.Fn strtod "const char *nptr" "char **endptr"
.Sh 解説
.Fn strtod
関数は、
.Fa nptr
が指す文字列の最初の部分を
.Em double
による表現に変換します。
.Pp
文字列に想定される形は、
オプションのプラス (``+'') またはマイナス (``\-'') 記号、
続いて数字の並び ( これはオプションで小数点文字を含みます ) 、
オプションで指数が続くというものです。
指数は、 ``E'' または ``e'' に
オプションでプラスまたはマイナス記号が続いて、
さらに数字の並びが続くという形です。
.Pp
文字列の先頭の空白文字 (
.Xr isspace 3
関数により定義されるような) はスキップします。
.Sh 戻り値
.Fn strtod
関数は、どんなときでも変換された値を返します。
.Pp
.Fa endptr
が
.Dv NULL
でない場合は、変換に使われた最後の文字の次の文字へのポインタが、
.Fa endptr
により参照される場所に格納されます。
.Pp
変換が行われなかった場合はゼロが返され、
.Fa nptr
の値は
.Fa endptr
によって参照される場所に格納されます。
.Pp
正しい値がオーバーフローとなると思われるときは、
( その値の符号にしたがって ) プラスまたはマイナスの
.Dv HUGE_VAL
が返され、
.Dv ERANGE
が
.Va errno
に保存されます。
正しい値がアンダーフローとなると思われるときは、
ゼロが返され、
.Dv ERANGE
が
.Va errno
に保存されます。
.Sh エラー
.Bl -tag -width [ERANGE]
.It Bq Er ERANGE
オーバーフローまたはアンダーフローが起きました。
.Sh 参照
.Xr atof 3 ,
.Xr atoi 3 ,
.Xr atol 3 ,
.Xr strtol 3 ,
.Xr strtoul 3
.Sh 規格
.Fn strtod
関数は、
.St -ansiC
に準拠しています。
.Sh 作者
このソフトウェアの作者は
.An David M. Gay
です。
.Pp
Copyright (c) 1991 by AT&T.
.Pp
本ソフトウェアのコピーや修正版、またはそれらを含むソフトウェア
のすべてのコピー、およびそのようなソフトウェアのサポートドキュメント
のすべてのコピーにこの注意書き全体が含まれていることを条件として、この
ソフトウェアを無料であらゆる目的に使用し、コピーし、修正し、
配布することをここに許諾します。
.Pp
本ソフトウェアは、いかなる明示的または暗黙的な保証なしに、
「そのままの形」で提供されています。
特に、作者あるいは AT&T は、
本ソフトウェアの商品性または特定の目的に対する適合性に関する
説明または保証を一切行いません。
.Pp
.Fn strtod
およびそれに付随する関数のソースコードの無料
コピー入手については、ベンダーに連絡してください。
