.\" Copyright (c) 1998 Softweyr LLC.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" strtok_r, from Berkeley strtok
.\" Oct 13, 1998 by Wes Peters <wes@softweyr.com>
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1988, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" the American National Standards Committee X3, on Information
.\" Processing Systems.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notices, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
.\"    copyright notices, this list of conditions and the following
.\"    disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided
.\"    with the distribution.
.\" 
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this
.\"    software must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"
.\"	This product includes software developed by Softweyr LLC, the
.\"      University of California, Berkeley, and its contributors.
.\"
.\" 4. Neither the name of Softweyr LLC, the University nor the names
.\"    of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products
.\"    derived from this software without specific prior written
.\"    permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY SOFTWEYR LLC, THE REGENTS AND
.\" CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES,
.\" INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
.\" DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL SOFTWEYR LLC, THE REGENTS, OR
.\" CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
.\" SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF
.\" USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND
.\" ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,
.\" OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT
.\" OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)strtok.3	8.2 (Berkeley) 2/3/94
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd November 27, 1998
.Dt STRTOK 3
.Os FreeBSD 3.0
.Sh 名称
.Nm strtok, strtok_r
.Nd 文字列のトークン
.Sh 書式
.Fd #include <string.h>
.Ft char *
.Fn strtok "char *str" "const char *sep"
.Ft char *
.Fn strtok_r "char *str" "const char *sep" "char **last"
.Sh 解説
.Bf -symbolic
このインタフェースは strsep(3) によって置き換えられました。
.Ef
.Pp
.Fn strtok
関数は、ヌルで終端された文字列
.Fa str
の中の連続するトークンを分割するために用いられます。
これらのトークンは、その文字列内で
.Fa sep
の中の文字の少なくとも 1 つによって区分されています。
最初に
.Fn strtok
を呼び出すときには、
.Fa str
を指定する必要があります。
同じ文字列からさらにトークンを取得するために
続いて呼び出すときには、
代りにヌルポインタを渡す必要があります。
セパレータ文字列
.Fa sep
は毎回与えなければなりませんが、
呼び出しのたびに変更しても構いません。
.Pp
.Fn strtok_r
関数は
.Fn strtok
の再入可能なバージョンです。
コンテキストポインタ
.Fa last
は、呼び出し毎に与えなければなりません。
.Fn strtok_r
は、別々のコンテキストポインタが使われている限りでは、
お互いの内部で 2 つのパースループをネストするためにも使えます。
.Pp
.Fn strtok
および
.Fn strtok_r
関数は、そのトークン自体を
.Dv NUL
文字で置き換えた後、
文字列の次のトークンの先頭へのポインタを返します。
トークンがなくなっると、ヌルポインタを返します。
.Sh 例
次の例では、別々のコンテキストを使って 2 つの文字列を
パースするために
.Fn strtok_r
を使っています:
.Bd -literal
char test[80], blah[80];
char *sep = "\\/:;=-";
char *word, *phrase, *brkt, *brkb;

strcpy(test, "This;is.a:test:of=the/string\\tokenizer-function.");

for (word = strtok_r(test, sep, &brkt);
     word;
     word = strtok_r(NULL, sep, &brkt))
{
    strcpy(blah, "blah:blat:blab:blag");

    for (phrase = strtok_r(blah, sep, &brkb);
         phrase;
         phrase = strtok_r(NULL, sep, &brkb))
    {
        printf("So far we're at %s:%s\n", word, phrase);
    }
}
.Ed
.Sh 参照
.Xr index 3 ,
.Xr memchr 3 ,
.Xr rindex 3 ,
.Xr strchr 3 ,
.Xr strcspn 3 ,
.Xr strpbrk 3 ,
.Xr strrchr 3 ,
.Xr strsep 3 ,
.Xr strspn 3 ,
.Xr strstr 3
.Sh 規格
.Fn strtok
関数は、
.St -ansiC
に準拠しています。
.Sh バグ
System V の
.Fn strtok
は、区切り文字のみからなる文字列を渡された場合は、
次の開始点を変更しません。
異なる ( または空の ) 区切り文字列を使った
.Fn strtok
の呼び出しで、
.Dv NULL
以外の値を返せるようにするためです。
この実装では常に次の開始点を変更するので、
そのような呼び出しが続く時は常に
.Dv NULL
を返すことになります。
.Sh 作者
.An Wes Peters, Softweyr LLC: Aq wes@softweyr.com
.br
.Fx 3.0
での実装に基づきます。
