.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)stty.3	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\"
.Dd June 4, 1993
.Dt STTY 3
.Os BSD 4.2
.Sh 名称
.Nm stty ,
.Nm gtty
.Nd 端末状態の設定および取得 ( 現存しません )
.Sh 書式
.Fd #include <sgtty.h>
.Ft int
.Fn stty "int fd" "struct sgttyb *buf"
.Ft int
.Fn gtty "int fd" "struct sgttyb *buf"
.Sh 解説
.Bf -symbolic
これらのインタフェースは、ioctl(2) によって置き換えられました。
これらの関数は、互換ライブラリ libcompat から利用できます。
.Ef
.Pp
.Fn stty
関数は、
.Fa fd
に割り当てられた端末の状態を設定します。
.Fn gtty
関数は、
.Fa fd
に割り当てられた端末の状態を取得します。
端末の状態を設定するには、
その呼び出しは書込み許可を持っていなければなりません。
.Pp
.Fn stty
の呼び出しは、実際は
.Ql ioctl(fd, TIOCSETP, buf)
であり、
.Fn gtty
呼び出しは
.Ql ioctl(fd, TIOCGETP, buf)
です。この説明については、
.Xr ioctl 2
および
.Xr tty 4
を参照してください。
.Sh 診断
呼び出しが成功した場合は 0 が返され、
そうでない場合は \-1 が返され、グローバル変数
.Va errno
に失敗の原因が入ります。
.Sh 参照
.Xr ioctl 2 ,
.Xr tty 4
.Sh 歴史
.Fn stty
および
.Fn gtty
関数は、
.Bx 4.2
に現れました。
