.\" Copyright (c) 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)tcsetpgrp.3	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\"
.Dd June 4, 1993
.Dt TCSETPGRP 3
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm tcsetpgrp
.Nd フォアグラウンド処理グループ ID の設定
.Sh 書式
.Fd #include <sys/types.h>
.Fd #include <unistd.h>
.Ft int
.Fn tcsetpgrp "int fd" "pid_t pgrp_id"
.Sh 解説
処理が制御する端末を持つ場合は、
.Nm tcsetpgrp
関数はその端末デバイスと連携したフォアグラウンド処理グループ ID を
.Fa pgrp_id
に設定します。
.Fa fd
に連携した端末デバイスは、呼び出し処理の制御端末でなければならず、またその
制御端末はその呼び出し側処理のセッションに
現在連携していなければなりません。
.Fa pgrp_id
の値は、同じセッションにおける処理の呼び出し側処理の処理グループ ID と
同じでなければなりません。
.Pp
処理が成功して完了すると、
.Nm tcsetpgrp
は値ゼロを返します。
.Sh エラー
エラーが起きた場合は、
.Nm tcsetpgrp
は値 -1 を返してエラーを示すグローバル変数
.Va errno
を次のように設定します：
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EBADF
引数
.Fa fd
が有効なファイル記述子ではありません。
.It Bq Er EINVAL
無効な
.Fa pgrp_id
の値が指定されました。
.It Bq Er ENOTTY
呼び出し処理が制御端末を持っていないか、または
.Fa fd
で
表わされるファイルが制御端末ではないか、または制御端末がもはや呼び出し
処理のセッションに結合されていません。
.It Bq Er EPERM
引数
.Fa pgrp_id
が、同じセッションにおける処理の呼び出し側処理の
処理グループ ID と一致しません。
.El
.Sh 参照
.Xr setpgid 2 ,
.Xr setsid 2 ,
.Xr tcgetpgrp 3
.Sh 規格
.Nm tcsetpgprp
関数は、
.St -p1003.1-88
規格に準拠しているものと考えられます。
