.\" Copyright (c) 1989, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" the American National Standards Committee X3, on Information
.\" Processing Systems.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)tolower.3	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/locale/tolower.3,v 1.6.2.4 2001/12/14 18:33:55 ru Exp %
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd June 4, 1993
.Dt TOLOWER 3
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm tolower
.Nd 大文字から小文字への変換
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.In ctype.h
.Ft int
.Fn tolower "int c"
.Sh 解説
.Fn tolower
関数は大文字を対応する小文字に変換します。
C 言語の
.Va char Ns s
型ひとつに関するロケール (
.Xr multibyte 3
参照 ) のことを考慮して、引数の値は
.Li unsigned char
または
.Dv EOF
の値として表されなければなりません。
.Sh 戻り値
引数が大文字である場合は、その文字に対応する小文字がある場合は
.Fn tolower
関数はそれを返します。それ以外の場合は、その引数が変更されないまま返されます。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr isalnum 3 ,
.Xr isalpha 3 ,
.Xr isascii 3 ,
.Xr iscntrl 3 ,
.Xr isdigit 3 ,
.Xr isgraph 3 ,
.Xr islower 3 ,
.Xr isprint 3 ,
.Xr ispunct 3 ,
.Xr isspace 3 ,
.Xr isupper 3 ,
.Xr isxdigit 3 ,
.Xr multibyte 3 ,
.Xr stdio 3 ,
.Xr toascii 3 ,
.Xr toupper 3 ,
.Xr ascii 7
.Sh 規格
.Fn tolower
関数は
.St -isoC
に準拠しています。
