.\" Copyright (c) 1986, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     From: @(#)ualarm.3	8.2 (Berkeley) 4/19/94
.\"     $Id: ualarm.3,v 1.1.1.1 1999-12-09 16:25:53 kuriyama Exp $
.\"
.Dd April 19, 1994
.Dt UALARM 3
.Os BSD 4.3
.Sh 名称
.Nm ualarm
.Nd 指定された時間後に信号発信を予定
.Sh 書式
.Fd #include <unistd.h>
.Ft u_int 
.Fn ualarm "u_int microseconds" "u_int interval"
.Sh 解説
.Bf -symbolic
これは setitimer(2) への簡易化されたインタフェースです。
.Ef
.Pp
.Fn ualarm
関数は、
.Ar microseconds
のカウントだけ待ってから終了信号
.Dv SIGALRM
を出します。システム動作またはその呼び出し処理に使った
時間によって、わずかな遅れが起きる場合があります。
.Pp
引数
.Ar interval
が非ゼロである場合は、タイマが切れた後 ( すなわち、
.Fa value
マイクロ秒が過ぎた後 ) の
.Ar interval
マイクロ秒毎に
.Dv SIGALRM
信号がプロセスに
対して送られます。
.Pp
.Xr setitimer 2
の制限によって、
.Ar microseconds
および
.Ar interval
の最大数は
100000000000000 に制限されます ( この値が符号なし整数の範囲内に収まる
場合 ) 。
.Sh 戻り値
信号がうまく受け取られた場合は、
.Fn ualarm
関数はクロックに残された時間数を返します。
.Sh 注
1 マイクロ秒は、0.000001 秒です。
.Sh 参照
.Xr getitimer 2 ,
.Xr setitimer 2 ,
.Xr sigpause 2 ,
.Xr sigvec 2 ,
.Xr alarm 3 ,
.Xr signal 3 ,
.Xr sleep 3 ,
.Xr usleep 3
.Sh 歴史
.Fn ualarm
関数は、
.Bx 4.3
に現れました。
