.\" Copyright (c) 1994
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)uname.3	8.1 (Berkeley) 1/4/94
.\"
.Dd January 4, 1994
.Dt UNAME 3
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm uname
.Nd システムの識別名を取得
.Sh 書式
.Fd #include <sys/utsname.h>
.Ft int
.Fn uname "struct utsname *name"
.Sh 解説
.Fn uname
関数は、現在のシステムを識別する情報の null で終るストリングを
.Fa name
により参照される構造に保存します。
.Pp
.Li utsname
構造体は、ヘッダファイル
.Li <sys/utsname.h>
の中で定義され、次のメンバーを収容しています:
.Bl -tag -width nodenameXXXX -offset indent
.It sysname
オペレーティングシステム実現の名称。
.It nodename
このマシンのネットワーク名。
.It release
オペレーティングシステムのリリースレベル。
.It version
オペレーティングシステムのバージョンレベル。
.It machine
マシンのハードウェアプラットフォーム。
.El
.Sh 戻り値
.Fn uname
関数が成功すると 0 が返されますが、失敗すると -1 が返され、
対応する
.Va errno
が設定されます。
.Sh エラー
.Fn uname
関数が失敗すると、ライブラリ関数
.Xr sysctl 3
について指定されたエラーに対する
.Va errno
が設定されます。
.Sh 参照
.Xr uname 1 ,
.Xr sysctl 3
.Sh 規格
.Fn uname
関数は、
.St -p1003.1-88
に準拠しています。
.Sh 歴史
.Fn uname
関数は、最初に
.Bx 4.4
に現れました。
