.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" Chris Torek and the American National Standards Committee X3,
.\" on Information Processing Systems.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)ungetc.3	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/stdio/ungetc.3,v 1.4.2.5 2001/12/14 18:33:57 ru Exp %
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd June 4, 1993
.Dt UNGETC 3
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm ungetc
.Nd 入力ストリームから文字を戻す
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.In stdio.h
.Ft int
.Fn ungetc "int c" "FILE *stream"
.Sh 解説
.Fn ungetc
関数は、
(符号なし char に変換されている) 
文字
.Fa c
を
.Fa stream
が指す入力ストリームに戻します。
プッシュバックされた文字は、
次にそのストリームを読んだときには
(逆の順序で)
返されます。
プッシュバックした文字は、
そのストリームから読み出す前に、
ファイル位置検索関数 
.Xr ( fseek 3 ,
.Xr fsetpos 3 ,
または
.Xr rewind 3 )
のいずれかへの割り込み呼び出しが
成功すると廃棄されます。
.Pp
1 文字分のプッシュバックは保証されていますが、十分なメモリ
がある限り、実質的には限度なしのプッシュバックが可能です。
.Pp
文字のプッシュバックに成功すると、
そのストリームのファイル終了表示子を
クリアします。
.Sh 戻り値
.Fn ungetc
関数は、変換後にプッシュバックされたキャラクタを返すか、
またはその操作に失敗した場合は
.Dv EOF
を返します。引数
.Fa c
の文字値が
.Dv EOF
に等しい場合は、
その操作は失敗してストリームは変更されません。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr fseek 3 ,
.Xr getc 3 ,
.Xr setvbuf 3
.Sh 規格
.Fn ungetc
関数は、
.St -isoC
に適合しています。
