.\" Copyright (c) 1986, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)usleep.3	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\"     %Id: usleep.3,v 1.9 1998/02/13 04:44:49 bde Exp %
.\"
.Dd Feb 13, 1998
.Dt USLEEP 3
.Os BSD 4.3
.Sh 名称
.Nm usleep
.Nd プロセスの実行をマイクロ秒で測った時間だけ中断
.Sh 書式
.Fd #include <unistd.h>
.Ft int
.Fn usleep "unsigned int microseconds"
.Sh 解説
.Fn usleep
関数は、
.Fa microseconds
マイクロ秒経過するか、またはプロセスに
信号が到着してその動作が信号受信機能を呼び出すものであるかまたはプロセスを
終了するものであるまで、呼び出しプロセスの実行を中断します。システムの
活動状態によっては、スリープ時間は不確定の時間だけ長くなります。
.Pp
この関数は、
.Fa microseconds
マイクロ秒だけ、または信号があるまでポーズ
して
.Xr nanosleep 2
を使い実行されます。その結果、このインプリメンテーション
ではスリープはプロセスタイマーの状態には影響を与えず、 
SIGALRM について特別な取扱いは行いません。
.Sh 戻り値
.\".Rv -std usleep
.Fn usleep
関数は、成功すると値 0 を返します。それ以外の場合は値 -1 が
返され、エラーを示すグローバル変数 
.Fa errno 
が設定されます。
.Sh エラー
.Fn usleep
関数は、次のような場合には失敗します：
.Bl -tag -width [EINTR]
.It Bq Er EINTR
信号がプロセスに到着し、その動作は信号受信機能を呼び出すものでした。
.Sh 参照
.Xr nanosleep 2 ,
.Xr sleep 3
.Sh 歴史
.Fn usleep
関数は、
.Bx 4.3
に現れました。
