.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)utime.3	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/gen/utime.3,v 1.5.2.4 2001/12/14 18:33:51 ru Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd June 4, 1993
.Dt UTIME 3
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm utime
.Nd ファイルの時間を設定
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.In sys/types.h
.In utime.h
.Ft int
.Fn utime "const char *file" "const struct utimbuf *timep"
.Sh 解説
.Bf -symbolic
このインタフェースは
.Xr utimes 2
によって置き換えられました。
.Ef
.Pp
.Fn utime
関数は、引数配列
.Fa timep
の中の構造体から名前で指定されたファイルのアクセスおよび
修正の時間を設定します。
.Pp
時刻が指定された場合 ( 引数
.Fa timep
が
.Dv NULL
でない場合 )  は、呼び出し元はそのファイルの所有者であるか、
またはスーパユーザでなければなりません。
.Pp
時刻が指定されていない場合 ( 引数
.Fa timep
が
.Dv NULL
の場合 ) は、呼び出し元はそのファイルの所有者であるか、
そのファイルに書込みを許されているか、
またはスーパユーザでなければなりません。
.Sh エラー
.Fn utime
関数が失敗すると、ライブラリ関数
.Xr utimes 2
について指定されたエラーに対する
.Va errno
が設定されます。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr stat 2 ,
.Xr utimes 2
.Sh 歴史
.Fn utime
関数は
.At v7
で登場しました。
.Sh 規格
.Fn utime
関数は、
.St -p1003.1-88
に適合しています。
