.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001 Chad David <davidc@acns.ab.ca>. All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice(s), this list of conditions and the following disclaimer as
.\"    the first lines of this file unmodified other than the possible
.\"    addition of one or more copyright notices.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice(s), this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER(S) ``AS IS'' AND ANY
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
.\" DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER(S) BE LIABLE FOR ANY
.\" DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
.\" (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
.\" SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER
.\" CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
.\" DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" %FreeBSD: src/share/man/man9/BUF_TIMELOCK.9,v 1.8 2002/01/09 11:43:45 mpp Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd July 9, 2001
.Dt BUF_TIMELOCK 9
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm BUF_TIMELOCK
.Nd バッファのロック
.Sh 書式
.In sys/param.h
.In sys/systm.h
.In sys/uio.h
.In sys/bio.h
.In sys/buf.h
.Ft int
.Fn BUF_TIMELOCK "struct buf *bp" "int locktype" "char *wmesg" "int catch" "int timo"
.Sh 解説
.Fn BUF_TIMELOCK
関数は与えられたバッファをロックし、スリープする時間量を
.Fa timo
に制限し、さらにそのスリープの優先度と
.Fa catch
の OR をとります。
.Fa wmesg
はスリープで使用される状態文字列です。
.Pp
引数は以下の通りです。
.Bl -tag -width ".Fa locktype"
.It Fa bp
ロックされるべきバッファです。
.It Fa locktype
ロックの型を制御するフラグです。
詳細については
.Xr lockmgr 9
を参照して下さい。
.It Fa wmesg
ロックを獲得している間の全てのスリープで使用される状態文字列です。
.It Fa catch
スリープの優先度に OR をとる優先度です。
.It Fa timo
ロックされている間に発生する全てのスリープのためのタイムアウトです。
.El
.Sh 戻り値
成功時には、値 0 が返されます。
0 ではない戻り値についての詳細は
.Xr lockmgr 9
を参照して下さい。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr buf 9 ,
.Xr BUF_LOCK 9 ,
.Xr BUF_UNLOCK 9 ,
.Xr lockmgr 9
.Sh 作者
このマニュアルページは
.An Chad David Aq davidc@acns.ab.ca
が書きました。
