.\" Copyright (c) 2002 Mike Barcroft <mike@FreeBSD.org>
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" %FreeBSD: src/share/man/man9/byteorder.9,v 1.6 2003/05/21 17:32:55 ru Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd April 29, 2002
.Dt BYTEORDER 9
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm bswap16 , bswap32 , bswap64 ,
.Nm be16toh , be32toh , be64toh , htobe16 , htobe32 , htobe64 ,
.Nm htole16 , htole32 , htole64 , le16toh , le32toh , le64toh ,
.Nm be16enc , be16dec , be32enc , be32dec , be64enc , be64dec ,
.Nm le16enc , le16dec , le32enc , le32dec , le64enc , le64dec
.Nd バイトオーダの操作
.Sh 書式
.In sys/endian.h
.Ft uint16_t
.Fn bswap16 "uint16_t int16"
.Ft uint32_t
.Fn bswap32 "uint32_t int32"
.Ft uint64_t
.Fn bswap64 "uint64_t int64"
.Ft uint16_t
.Fn be16toh "uint16_t big16"
.Ft uint32_t
.Fn be32toh "uint32_t big32"
.Ft uint64_t
.Fn be64toh "uint64_t big64"
.Ft uint16_t
.Fn htobe16 "uint16_t host16"
.Ft uint32_t
.Fn htobe32 "uint32_t host32"
.Ft uint64_t
.Fn htobe64 "uint64_t host64"
.Ft uint16_t
.Fn htole16 "uint16_t host16"
.Ft uint32_t
.Fn htole32 "uint32_t host32"
.Ft uint64_t
.Fn htole64 "uint64_t host64"
.Ft uint16_t
.Fn le16toh "uint16_t little16"
.Ft uint32_t
.Fn le32toh "uint32_t little32"
.Ft uint64_t
.Fn le64toh "uint64_t little64"
.Ft uint16_t
.Fn be16dec "const void *"
.Ft uint32_t
.Fn be32dec "const void *"
.Ft uint64_t
.Fn be64dec "const void *"
.Ft uint16_t
.Fn le16dec "const void *"
.Ft uint32_t
.Fn le32dec "const void *"
.Ft uint64_t
.Fn le64dec "const void *"
.Ft void
.Fn be16enc "void *" uint16_t
.Ft void
.Fn be32enc "void *" uint32_t
.Ft void
.Fn be64enc "void *" uint64_t
.Ft void
.Fn le16enc "void *" uint16_t
.Ft void
.Fn le32enc "void *" uint32_t
.Ft void
.Fn le64enc "void *" uint64_t
.Sh 解説
.Fn bswap16 ,
.Fn bswap32
および
.Fn bswap64
関数はバイトオーダが交換された整数を返します。
ビッグエンディアンのシステム上では、
その数値はリトルエンディアンのバイトオーダに変換されます。
リトルエンディアンのシステム上では、
その数値はビッグエンディアンのバイトオーダに変換されます。
.Pp
.Fn be16toh ,
.Fn be32toh
および
.Fn be64toh
関数はビッグエンディアンのバイトオーダの整数をシステムのネイティブな
バイトオーダに変換して返します。
ビッグエンディアンのシステム上では、戻り値は引数と同じになります。
.Pp
.Fn le16toh ,
.Fn le32toh
および
.Fn le64toh
関数はリトルエンディアンのバイトオーダの整数をシステムのネイティブな
バイトオーダに変換して返します。
リトルエンディアンのシステム上では、戻り値は引数と同じになります。
.Pp
.Fn htobe16 ,
.Fn htobe32
および
.Fn htobe64
関数はシステムのネイティブなバイトオーダの整数をビッグエンディアンの
バイトオーダに変換して返します。
ビッグエンディアンのシステム上では、戻り値は引数と同じになります。
.Pp
.Fn htole16 ,
.Fn htole32
および
.Fn htole64
関数はシステムのネイティブなバイトオーダの整数をリトルエンディアンの
バイトオーダに変換して返します。
リトルエンディアンのシステム上では、戻り値は引数と同じになります。
.Pp
.Fn be16enc ,
.Fn be16dec ,
.Fn be32enc ,
.Fn be32dec ,
.Fn be64enc ,
.Fn be64dec ,
.Fn le16enc ,
.Fn le16dec ,
.Fn le32enc ,
.Fn le32dec ,
.Fn le64enc ,
および
.Fn le64dec
関数はビッグ/リトルエンディアンのあらゆるアライメントの、
整数からバイトストリングへエンコードおよび
バイトコードから整数へデコードを行います。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr byteorder 3
.Sh 歴史
.Fn hto*
および
.Fn *toh
関数は
.Fx 5.0
ではじめて登場し、元々は
.Nx
プロジェクトによって開発されていました。
.Pp
エンコード/デコード関数は
.Fx 5.1
ではじめて登場しました。
