.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2000 Alexander Langer
.\"
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This program is free software.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE DEVELOPERS ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE DEVELOPERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" %FreeBSD: src/share/man/man9/DRIVER_MODULE.9,v 1.10 2001/12/26 23:14:04 davidc Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd May 16, 2000
.Dt DRIVER_MODULE 9
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm DRIVER_MODULE
.Nd カーネルドライバ宣言マクロ
.Sh 書式
.In sys/param.h
.In sys/kernel.h
.In sys/bus.h
.In sys/module.h
.Fn DRIVER_MODULE name busname "driver_t driver" "devclass_t devclass" "modeventhand_t evh" "void *arg"
.Fn MULTI_DRIVER_MODULE name busname "driver_t drivers[]" "devclass_t devclass" "modeventhand_t evh" "void *arg"
.Sh 解説
.Fn DRIVER_MODULE
マクロは、カーネルドライバを宣言します。
.Fn DRIVER_MODULE
は実際のドライバ宣言に展開し、そこで
.Fa name
はドライバとその関数の接頭辞として使用されます。
これはプレインテキストとして与えられ、
.Li char
または
.Li char *
ではないことに注意してください。
.Pp
.Fa busname
はドライバの親のバス (PCI, ISA, PPBUS, その他) で、
.Ql pci ,
.Ql isa ,
.Ql ppbus
等です。
.Pp
.Fn DRIVER_MODULE
の中で使用される識別子は、ドライバの名前と別のものにすることができます。
また、異なるバス上には同じドライバ識別子が存在できます。
これは、同じドライバを使用する同一または異なるバス上の種々のカード用に、
フロントエンドをうまくきれいに作成する方法です。
例えば、次のようにできます。
.Pp
.Fn DRIVER_MODULE foo isa foo_driver foo_devclass NULL NULL ;
.Pp
.Fn DRIVER_MODULE foo pci foo_driver foo_devclass NULL NULL ;
.Pp
.Fa driver
は
.Li driver_t
型のドライバで、ドライバについての情報を含み、それゆえ
.Fn DRIVER_MODULE
を呼び出すための最も重要な 2 つの部分のうちの 1 つです。
.Pp
引数
.Fa devclass
はデバイスについてのカーネル内部の情報を含み、
カーネルドライバモジュールの内部で使用されます。
.Pp
引数
.Fa evh
はドライバ (またはモジュール) がロードまたはアンロードされた時に
呼び出されるイベントハンドラです (
.Xr module 9
を参照してください)。
.Pp
現時点では
.Fa arg
は使用されず、
.Dv NULL
ポインタであるべきです。
.Pp
.Fn MULTI_DRIVER_MODULE
は
.Fn DRIVER_MODULE
の特殊バージョンであり、
単一のドライバインスタンスの代りにドライバリストを取ります。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr device 9 ,
.Xr driver 9 ,
.Xr module 9
.Sh 作者
このマニュアルページは
.An Alexander Langer Aq alex@FreeBSD.org
が書きました。
