.\"-
.\" Copyright (c) 1999 Robert N. M. Watson
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"       %FreeBSD: src/share/man/man9/extattr.9,v 1.1.2.4 2001/12/17 11:30:18 ru Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd December 23, 1999
.Os
.Dt EXTATTR 9
.Sh 名称
.Nm extattr
.Nd 仮想ファイルシステムの名前付き拡張属性
.Sh 書式
.In sys/param.h
.In sys/vnode.h
.In sys/extattr.h
.Sh 解説
名前付き拡張属性は、ファイルまたはディレクトリを表現する vnode に
追加のメタデータを関連付けることを可能にします。
この追加のデータのセマンティクスは、"name=value" ("名前=値") のペアで、
名前は定義されても定義されなくても良く、定義されていれば、0 バイト以上の
任意のバイナリデータに関連付けられます。
このデータの読み込みは、
.Xr VOP_READ 9
の形式で、明示されたメタデータの連続した領域を返します。
一方、書込みは、
与えられた名前に関連付けられた現在の "値" 全体が置き換えられます。
拡張属性の違いを持つファイルシステムが過多にあります。
このため、これらの関数は、利用可能性および機能性は制限されるかもしれませんし、
サポートするファイルシステムの基本的なセマンティクスを意識して
使用するべきです。
拡張属性データのための権限を与える機構は、
ファイルシステムによって異なります。
これは、属性の最大の大きさや、
任意または特定の新規属性を定義可能か否かも同様です。
.Pp
拡張属性は、ヌルで終端された文字列を使用して名前付けされます。
名前は大文字と小文字を区別するかもしれませんし、しないかもしれませんが、
これはファイルシステムのセマンティクスに依存します。
適切な vnode 拡張属性の呼び出しは、
.Xr VOP_GETEXTATTR 9
および
.Xr VOP_SETEXTATTR 9
です。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr VFS 9 ,
.Xr VOP_GETEXTATTR 9 ,
.Xr VOP_SETEXTATTR 9
.Sh 作者
このマニュアルページは
.An Robert Watson
が書きました。
