.\" Copyright (c) 1999 Chris Costello
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" %FreeBSD: src/share/man/man9/make_dev.9,v 1.15.4.1 2005/03/31 14:20:12 brueffer Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd March 28, 2005
.Os
.Dt MAKE_DEV 9
.Sh 名称
.Nm make_dev ,
.Nm make_dev_alias ,
.Nm destroy_dev ,
.Nm dev_depends
.Nd デバイスのための
.Vt cdev
および DEVFS 登録の管理
.Sh 書式
.In sys/param.h
.In sys/conf.h
.Ft struct cdev
.Fn make_dev "struct cdevsw *cdevsw" "int minor" "uid_t uid" "gid_t gid" "int perms" "const char *fmt" ...
.Ft struct cdev
.Fn make_dev_alias "struct cdev pdev" "const char *fmt" ...
.Ft void
.Fn destroy_dev "struct cdev dev"
.Ft void
.Fn dev_depends "struct cdev pdev" "struct cdev cdev"
.Sh 解説
.Fn make_dev
関数は新しいデバイスのための
.Fa cdev
構造体を作成します。
DEVFS が利用可能の場合には、新しいデバイスの存在も通知されます。
そのデバイスは
.Va uid
によって所有され、
.Va gid
のグループに所有され、
.Va name
で指定される名前を持ちます。
.Va perms
に指定するファイルのパーミッションは
.In sys/stat.h
で定義されています。
.Pp
.Bd -literal -offset indent -compact
#define S_IRWXU 0000700    /* 所有者の RWX マスク
#define S_IRUSR 0000400    /* 所有者の R */
#define S_IWUSR 0000200    /* 所有者の W */
#define S_IXUSR 0000100    /* 所有者の X */

#define S_IRWXG 0000070    /* グループの RWX マスク */
#define S_IRGRP 0000040    /* グループの R */
#define S_IWGRP 0000020    /* グループの W */
#define S_IXGRP 0000010    /* グループの X */

#define S_IRWXO 0000007    /* その他の RWX マスク */
#define S_IROTH 0000004    /* その他の R */
#define S_IWOTH 0000002    /* その他の W */
#define S_IXOTH 0000001    /* その他の X */

#define S_ISUID 0004000    /* 実行時にユーザ ID を設定 */
#define S_ISGID 0002000    /* 実行時にグループ ID を設定 */
#define S_ISVTX 0001000    /* スティッキビット */
#ifndef _POSIX_SOURCE
#define S_ISTXT 0001000
#endif
.Ed
.Pp
.Fn make_dev_alias
関数は
.Fn make_dev
から返された
.Ft cdev
をとり、このデバイスのための別の名前 (別名) を作成します。
.Fn make_dev
の呼出しの前の
.Fn make_dev_alias
の呼出しは、誤りです。
.Pp
.Fn destroy_dev
関数は
.Fn make_dev
から返された
.Fa cdev
をとり、そのデバイスの登録を削除します。
.Fn make_dev_alias
で作成されたデバイスで
.Fn destroy_dev
を呼出さないでください。
.Pp
.Fn dev_depends
関数は 2 つのデバイス間の親子関係を確立します。
このネット効果は、親デバイスの
.Fn destroy_dev
は、もしあれば、結果としてその子デバイスの破壊に終わります。
1 つのデバイスは同時に親にも子にもなれ、
そのため、完全な階層構造を構築することが可能です。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr devfs 5
.Sh 歴史
.Fn make_dev
および
.Fn destroy_dev
関数は
.Fx 4.0
ではじめて登場しました。
関数
.Fn make_dev_alias
は
.Fx 4.1
ではじめて登場しました。
関数
.Fn dev_depends
は
.Fx 5.0
ではじめて登場しました。
