.\" Copyright (c) 2000 Kelly Yancey
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"    %FreeBSD: src/share/man/man9/microuptime.9,v 1.2 2000/03/03 14:05:08 sheldonh Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd January 3, 2000
.Dt MICROUPTIME 9
.Os FreeBSD
.Sh 名称
.Nm microuptime ,
.Nm getmicrouptime ,
.Nm nanouptime ,
.Nm getnanouptime
.Nd 起動からの経過時間の取得
.Sh 書式
.Fd #include <sys/time.h>
.Ft void
.Fn microuptime "struct timeval *tv"
.Ft void
.Fn getmicrouptime "struct timeval *tv"
.Ft void
.Fn nanouptime "struct timespec *ts"
.Ft void
.Fn getnanouptime "struct timespec *tsp"
.Sh 解説
.Fn microuptime
および
.Fn getmicrouptime
関数は、
.Fa tv
によって指定されたアドレスに、
.Ft timeval
構造体として、起動からの経過時間を保存します。
.Fn nanouptime
および
.Fn getnanouptime
関数は、同じ作用を実行しますが、代りに
.Ft timespec
構造体として経過時間を記録します。
.Pp
.Fn microuptime
および
.Fn nanouptime
は、常に可能な限り正確な現在時刻を返す時刻カウンタを請求します。
それに反して、
.Fn getmicrouptime
および
.Fn getnanouptime
関数は、正確ではないが高速に得られる時刻を代りに返し得る抽象化です。
この振舞いは、kern.timecounter.method sysctl 変数により、
切り替えることができます。
.Bl -tag -width ABC
.It Dv 0
高速なコード実行を選択して、正確さを犠牲にします。
.It Dv 1
(
.Fn microuptime
または
.Fn nanouptime
の呼び出しと同等の) より正確な時刻を返します。
.El
.Pp
.Fn getmicrouptime
および
.Fn getnanouptime
関数の意図は、タイマの正確さ対実行時間のユーザの好みを強化することです。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr getmicrotime 9 ,
.Xr getnanotime 9 ,
.Xr microtime 9 ,
.Xr nanotime 9 ,
.Xr tvtohz 9
.Sh 診断
バグのあるハードウェアは kern.timecounter.method が 0 に設定されている時に、
"calcru negative..." を起こすことがあります。
.Sh 作者
このマニュアルページは
.An Kelly Yancey Aq kbyanc@posi.net
が書きました。
