.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1996 Doug Rabson
.\"
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This program is free software.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE DEVELOPERS ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE DEVELOPERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" %FreeBSD: src/share/man/man9/VOP_FSYNC.9,v 1.6 1999/08/28 00:21:12 peter Exp %
.\"
.Dd July 24, 1996
.Os
.Dt VOP_FSYNC 9
.Sh 名称
.Nm VOP_FSYNC
.Nd ファイルシステムバッファのファイルへの吐き出し
.Sh 書式
.Fd #include <sys/param.h>
.Fd #include <sys/vnode.h>
.Ft int
.Fn VOP_FSYNC "struct vnode *vp" "struct ucred *cred" "int waitfor" "struct proc *p"
.Sh 解説
この呼び出しはファイルの全ての汚れたバッファを吐き出します。
.Xr sync 2
および
.Xr fsync 2
システムコールを実装するために使用されます。
.Pp
引数は以下の通りです。
.Bl -tag -width waitfor
.It Ar vp
ファイルの vnode。
.It Ar cred
呼び出し側の証明。
.It Ar waitfor
入出力の完了を関数が待つべきかどうか。
.It Ar p
呼び出しているプロセス。
.El
.Pp
引数
.Fa waitfor
は
.Dv MNT_WAIT
または
.Dv MNT_NOWAIT
のどちらかで、関数が戻る前に書き込みの終了を待つべきかどうかを指定します。
.Sh ロック
ファイルはエントリ時にロックされるべきです。
.Sh 戻り値
呼び出しが成功した場合には 0 が返され、
そうでない場合には適切なエラーコードが返されます。
.Sh 疑似コード
.Bd -literal
int
vop_fsync(struct vnode *vp, struct ucred *cred, int waitfor, struct proc *p)
{
    struct buf *bp;
    struct buf *nbp;
    struct timeval tv;
    int s;

loop:
    s = splbio();
    for (bp = vp->v_dirtyblkhd.lh_first; bp; bp = nbp) {
	nbp = bp->b_vnbufs.le_next;

	/*
	 * 既に書き込み中のバッファを無視します。
	 */
	if (bp->b_flags & B_BUSY)
	    continue;
	
	/*
	 * バッファが汚れているか確認します。
	 */
	if ((bp->b_flags & B_DELWRI) == 0)
	    panic("vop_fsync: not dirty");

	vfs_bio_awrite(bp);
	splx(s);
	goto loop;
    }
    splx(s);

    if (waitfor == MNT_WAIT) {
	s = splbio();
	while (vp->v_numoutput) {
	    vp->v_flag |= VBWAIT;
	    tsleep((caddr_t)&vp->v_numoutput, PRIBIO + 1, "vopfsn");
	}
	splx(s);
#ifdef DIAGNOSTIC
	if (vp->v_dirtyblkhd.lh_first) {
	    vprint("vop_fsync: dirty", vp);
	    goto loop;
	}
#endif
    }

    /*
     * ディスク上の vnode を書き出します。
     */
    tv = time;
    return VOP_UPDATE(vp, &tv, &tv, waitfor == MNT_WAIT);
}
.Ed
.Sh エラー
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er ENOSPC
ファイルシステムが一杯です。
.It Bq Er EDQUOT
クォータを超過しました。
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr vnode 9
.Sh 作者
このマニュアルページは
.An Doug Rabson
が書きました。
