.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1996 Doug Rabson
.\"
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This program is free software.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE DEVELOPERS ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE DEVELOPERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" %FreeBSD: src/share/man/man9/VOP_ACCESS.9,v 1.7.2.2 2001/03/06 19:08:22 ru Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD: doc/ja_JP.eucJP/man/man9/VOP_ACCESS.9,v 1.2 2001/05/14 01:10:21 horikawa Exp $
.Dd July 24, 1996
.Os
.Dt VOP_ACCESS 9
.Sh 名称
.Nm VOP_ACCESS
.Nd ファイルまたは UNIX ドメインソケットのアクセス許可の調査
.Sh 書式
.Fd #include <sys/param.h>
.Fd #include <sys/vnode.h>
.Ft int
.Fn VOP_ACCESS "struct vnode *vp" "int mode" "struct ucred *cred" "struct proc *p"
.Sh 解説
このエントリポイントは、与えられた証明に対する、ファイルの
アクセス許可を調査します。
.Pp
引数は以下の通りです。
.Bl -tag -width mode
.It Ar vp
調査対象ファイルの vnode。
.It Ar mode
要求されたアクセスのタイプ。
.It Ar cred
調査対象のユーザ証明。
.It Ar p
調査しているプロセス。
.El
.Pp
.Fa mode
は
.Dv VREAD ,
.Dv VWRITE
または
.Dv VEXEC
を含むマスクです。
.Sh ロック
vnode は、入る時にロックされ、戻る時にもロックされ続けます。
.Sh 戻り値
ファイルが指定された方法でアクセス可能な場合には、0 が返されます。
そうでない場合には、適切なエラーコードが返されます。
.Sh 疑似コード
.Bd -literal
int
vop_access(struct vnode *vp, int mode, struct ucred *cred, struct proc *p)
{
    int error;

    /*
     * ファイルがソケット、FIFO、またはファイルシステムに存在する
     * ブロック型または文字型デバイスでない場合には、読み込み専用
     * ファイルシステムへの書き込みは認められません。
     */
    if (mode & VWRITE) {
	switch (vp->v_type) {
	case VDIR:
	case VLNK:
	case VREG:
	    if (vp->v_mount->mnt_flag & MNT_RDONLY)
		return EROFS;

	    break;
	}
    }

    /* 不変ビットが設定されていれば、誰も書き込めません。 */
    if ((mode & VWRITE) && vp has immutable bit set)
	return EPERM;

    /* そうでなければ、uid が 0 ならば常に許可。 */
    if (cred->cr_uid == 0)
	return 0;

    mask = 0;

    /* そうでなければ、所有者を調べます。 */
    if (cred->cr_uid == owner of vp) {
	if (mode & VEXEC)
	    mask |= S_IXUSR;
	if (mode & VREAD)
	    mask |= S_IRUSR;
	if (mode & VWRITE)
	    mask |= S_IWUSR;
	return (((mode of vp) & mask) == mask ? 0 : EACCES);
    }

    /* そうでなければ、グループを調べます。 */
    for (i = 0, gp = cred->cr_groups; i < cred->cr_ngroups; i++, gp++)
	if (group of vp == *gp) {
	    if (mode & VEXEC)
		mask |= S_IXGRP;
	    if (mode & VREAD)
		mask |= S_IRGRP;
	    if (mode & VWRITE)
		mask |= S_IWGRP;
	    return (((mode of vp) & mask) == mask ? 0 : EACCES);
	}
    
    /* そうでなければ、その他を調べます。 */
    if (mode & VEXEC)
	mask |= S_IXOTH;
    if (mode & VREAD)
	mask |= S_IROTH;
    if (mode & VWRITE)
	mask |= S_IWOTH;
    return (((mode of vp) & mask) == mask ? 0 : EACCES);
}
.Ed
.Sh エラー
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EPERM
不変ファイルを変更しようとしました。
.It Bq Er EACCES
許可されません。
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr vnode 9
.Sh 作者
このマニュアルページは
.An Doug Rabson
が書きました。
