.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1996 Doug Rabson
.\"
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This program is free software.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE DEVELOPERS ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE DEVELOPERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" %FreeBSD: src/share/man/man9/VOP_LINK.9,v 1.9 1999/09/24 17:11:02 dillon Exp %
.\"
.Dd July 24, 1996
.Os
.Dt VOP_LINK 9
.Sh 名称
.Nm VOP_LINK
.Nd ファイルの新しい名前の作成
.Sh 書式
.Fd #include <sys/param.h>
.Fd #include <sys/vnode.h>
.Ft int
.Fn VOP_LINK "struct vnode *dvp" "struct vnode *vp" "struct componentname *cnp"
.Sh 解説
これは、既存のファイルに対し、
指定したディレクトリ中の新しい名前をリンクします。
.Pp
引数は以下の通りです。
.Bl -tag -width vdpX
.It Ar dvp
ディレクトリの vnode。
.It Ar vp
リンクされるファイルの vnode。
.It Ar cnp
ファイルについてのパス名情報。
.El
.Pp
パス名情報は、戻り時に開放されなければなりません。
ディレクトリとファイルの vnode は戻り時に開放されるべきではありません。
.Sh ロック
ディレクトリ
.Fa dvp
は、入る時にロックされていて、戻り時もロックされ続けているべきです。
ファイル
.Fa vp
は、入る時にロックされておらず、戻り時もそのままであるべきです。
VOP コードが
.Fa vp
をロックする場合には、戻る前に必ずロックを解除しなければなりません。
.Sh 戻り値
ファイルが成功裏にリンクされた場合には 0 が返され、
そうでない場合にはエラーが返されます。
.Sh 疑似コード
.Bd -literal
int
vop_link(struct vnode *dvp, struct vnode *vp, struct componentname *cnp)
{
    int error = 0;

    if (vp->v_mount != dvp->v_mount) {
	VOP_ABORTOP(dvp, cnp);
	error = EXDEV;
	goto out2;
    }
    if (vp != dvp && (error = VOP_LOCK(vp))) {
	VOP_ABORTOP(dvp, cnp);
	goto out2;
    }

    /*
     * 今、vp をロックしたので、out2 の代わりに out1 を使用
     * しなければなりません。
     */

    if (vp would have too many links) {
	VOP_ABORTOP(dvp, cnp);
	error = EMLINK;
	goto out1;
    }

    if (vp is immutable) {
	VOP_ABORTOP(dvp, cnp);
	error = EPERM;
	goto out1;
    }

    /*
     * vp のリンクカウントをインクリメントし、ディスクに書き戻します。
     */
    ...;

    if (!error) {
	/*
	 * ディレクトリの新しい名前を追加します。
	 */
	...;
    }

    free(cnp->cn_pnbuf, M_NAMEI);
out1:
    if (vp != dvp)
	VOP_UNLOCK(vp);
out2:

    return error;
}
.Ed
.Sh エラー
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EPERM
ファィルが変更不可能です。
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr vnode 9 ,
.Xr vn_lock 9
.Sh 作者
このマニュアルページは
.An Doug Rabson
が初めて書きました。
