.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1996 Doug Rabson
.\"
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This program is free software.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE DEVELOPERS ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE DEVELOPERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" %FreeBSD: src/share/man/man9/VOP_INACTIVE.9,v 1.5.2.1 2000/12/29 10:18:07 ru Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD: doc/ja_JP.eucJP/man/man9/VOP_INACTIVE.9,v 1.2 2001/05/14 01:10:22 horikawa Exp $
.Dd July 24, 1996
.Os
.Dt VOP_INACTIVE 9
.Sh 名称
.Nm VOP_INACTIVE ,
.Nm VOP_RECLAIM
.Nd vnode のためのファイルシステム資源の回収
.Sh 書式
.Fd #include <sys/param.h>
.Fd #include <sys/vnode.h>
.Ft int
.Fn VOP_INACTIVE "struct vnode *vp" "struct proc *p"
.Ft int
.Fn VOP_RECLAIM "struct vnode *vp" "struct proc *p"
.Sh 解説
.Pp
引数は以下の通りです。
.Bl -tag -width 2n
.It Ar vp
回収されている vnode。
.El
.Pp
.Xr VOP_INACTIVE 9
は、カーネルがもはやその vnode を使用しなくなった時に呼び出されます。
これは、参照カウントが 0 になった時、
またはオープンされているファイルがあるファイルシステムが
強制的にアンマウントされた時に起こります。
「オープンされているが削除された」ファイルのための領域を回収するために、
使用可能です。
.Xr VOP_RECLAIM 9
は、異なるファイルシステムのために vnode が再利用される時に呼び出されます。
vnode に関連しているあらゆるファイルシステム固有の資源は、開放されるべきです。
.Sh ロック
.Pp
VOP_INACTIVE では、入る時に vp がロックされます。
VOP_INACTIVE コードは、戻る前に vp をアンロックしなければなりません。
.Pp
VOP_RECLAIM では、入る時に vp はロックされず、
戻り時もロックされないままでいるべきです。
.Pp
.Sh 疑似コード
.Bd -literal
int
vop_inactive(struct vnode *vp)
{
    if (link count of vp == 0) {
	/*
	 * vp のためのファイルシステム内の領域を回収します。
	 */
	...;
    }
    VOP_UNLOCK(vp, 0, p);

    return 0;
}

int
vop_reclaim(struct vnode *vp)
{
    /*
     * 名前キャッシュを一掃します。
     */
    cache_purge(vp);

    /*
     * ファイルシステムに関連したデータを開放します。
     */
    ...;

    return 0;
}
.Ed
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr vnode 9
.Sh 作者
このマニュアルページは
.An Doug Rabson
が書きました。
