.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1996 Doug Rabson
.\"
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This program is free software.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE DEVELOPERS ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE DEVELOPERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" %FreeBSD: src/share/man/man9/vref.9,v 1.6 1999/08/28 00:21:35 peter Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd July 24, 1996
.Os
.Dt VREF 9
.Sh 名称
.Nm vref
.Nd vnode の使用カウントのインクリメント
.Sh 書式
.Fd #include <sys/param.h>
.Fd #include <sys/vnode.h>
.Ft void
.Fn vref "struct vnode *vp"
.Sh 解説
vnode の
.Dv v_usecount
フィールドをインクリメントします。
.Bl -tag -width vpXX
.It Ar vp
インクリメントされる vnode。
.El
.Pp
個々の vnode は、システムの何個の部分でその vnode が使用中であるかを示す
参照カウントを維持管理します。
これにより、
vnode がもはや使われなくなって別のファイル用に安全に再利用可能なことを、
ファイルシステムが検知可能となります。
.Pp
vnode を使用中のシステム中の全てのコード (例えば、
あるアルゴリズムの操作中や、データ構造の格納時) は、
.Xr vref 9
を呼び出すべきです。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr vget 9 ,
.Xr vnode 9 ,
.Xr vput 9 ,
.Xr vrele 9
.Sh 作者
このマニュアルページは
.An Doug Rabson
が書きました。
