.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)_exit.2	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/sys/_exit.2,v 1.10.2.1 2000/04/22 17:06:47 phantom Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd June 4, 1993
.Dt EXIT 2
.Os BSD 4
.Sh 名称
.Nm _exit
.Nd 呼び出し元プロセスを終了する
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.Fd #include <unistd.h>
.Ft void
.Fn _exit "int status"
.Sh 解説
.Fn _exit
関数はプロセスを終了させ、以降のような結果をもたらします。:
.Bl -bullet
.It
呼び出し元プロセス内のすべての記述子が閉じられます。
これには遅延が伴うことがあります。
たとえば、出力がすべて出されてしまうのを待機することです。
この状態のプロセスは既に死にかけているので、新たに kill はできません。
.It
呼び出し元プロセスの親プロセスに、未解決の
.Xr wait 2
呼び出しがある場合または
.Dv SIGCHLD
シグナルを捕捉した場合、呼び出し元プロセスの終了が親プロセスに通知され、
.Xr wait 2
で定義されたように
.Em status
が設定されます。
.It
呼び出し元プロセスに子プロセスが存在するなら、それらすべての子プロセスの
親プロセス ID は 1 に設定されます。
初期化プロセス
.Pf ( Xr intro 2
の
.Sx 定義
セクションを参照)
が、これらの各プロセスを継承します。
.It
プロセスの終了によっていずれかのプロセスグループが親のない子になる場合
(通常はグループのメンバ全員に対する親が終了したため。
.Xr intro 2
の
.Dq 孤児になったプロセスグループ (Orphaned Process Group)
を参照)、そして親のないグループのメンバのいずれかが停止されている場合、
その新たな親のないプロセスグループのすべてのメンバに
.Dv SIGHUP
シグナルと
.Dv SIGCONT
シグナルが送信されます。
.It
プロセスが制御プロセスの場合
.Pf ( Xr intro 2
を参照)、
.Dv SIGHUP
シグナルが制御端末のフォアグラウンドプロセスグループに送信され、
制御端末への現在のすべてのアクセスが無効にされます。
.El
.Pp
ほとんどの C プログラムはライブラリルーチン
.Xr exit 3
を呼び出します。これはバッファをフラッシュし、ストリームを閉じ、
一時ファイルをアンリンクするなどした後に
.Fn _exit
を呼び出します。
.Sh 戻り値
.Fn _exit
は戻りません。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr fork 2 ,
.Xr sigaction 2 ,
.Xr wait 2 ,
.Xr exit 3
.Sh 規格
.Fn _exit
関数は
.St -p1003.1-90
に準拠しています。
.Sh 歴史
.Fn _exit
関数は
.At v7
で登場しました。
