.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1991, 1993
.\"     The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"     This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"     California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)acct.2      8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/sys/acct.2,v 1.6.2.1 2000/04/22 17:06:48 phantom Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd June 4, 1993
.Dt ACCT 2
.Os BSD 4
.Sh 名称
.Nm acct
.Nd プロセスアカウンティングを有効または無効にする
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.Fd #include <unistd.h>
.Ft int
.Fn acct "const char *file"
.Sh 解説
.Fn acct
呼び出しは、システムアカウンティングレコードの収集を有効または無効にします。
引数
.Fa file
がヌルポインタである場合、アカウンティングは無効にされます。
.Fa file
が
.Em 既存
のパス名 (ヌル文字で終わる) の場合、レコード収集が有効になり、
開始されて通常の状態で終了した各プロセスについてのアカウンティングレコードが
.Fa file
に追加されます。
異常な終了状態とは、再起動またはその他の致命的なシステムの問題です。
決して終了しないプロセス用のレコードは
.Fn acct
によっては作成できません。
.Pp
.Fn acct
が使用するレコード構造体の詳細については、
.Pa /usr/include/sys/acct.h
および
.Xr acct 5
を参照してください。
.Pp
この呼び出しはスーパユーザにだけ許可されてます。
.Sh 注
アカウンティングファイルが存在しているファイルシステムの空き容量が
少なくなると、アカウンティングは自動的に無効になります。
空き容量が増えて再び利用できるようになると有効になります。
.Sh 戻り値
エラーの場合は -1 が返されます。ファイルは存在している必要があり、
呼び出しはスーパユーザだけができます。
.Sh エラー
.Fn acct
は次の場合に処理を失敗します。
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EPERM
スーパユーザ以外のユーザによって呼び出されました。
.It Bq Er ENOTDIR
パスの構成要素中にディレクトリ以外のものが含まれています。
.It Bq Er ENAMETOOLONG
パス名の構成要素が 255 文字を越えているか、
またはパス名全体が 1023 文字を越えています。
.It Bq Er ENOENT
指定されたファイルが存在しません。
.It Bq Er EACCES
パスの先頭構成要素について検索パーミッションが拒否されているか、
またはパス名が通常のファイルではありません。
.It Bq Er ELOOP
パス名を変換するときに検出されたシンボリックリンクが多すぎます。
.It Bq Er EROFS
指定されたファイルは読取り専用ファイルシステム上にあります。
.It Bq Er EFAULT
.Fa file
は、プロセスに割り当てられたアドレス空間の範囲外を指しています。
.It Bq Er EIO
ファイルシステムに読み書きしている間に入出力エラーが発生しました。
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr acct 5 ,
.Xr sa 8
.Sh 歴史
.Fn acct
関数は
.At v7
で登場しました。
