.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)adjtime.2	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/sys/adjtime.2,v 1.6.2.1 2000/04/22 17:06:48 phantom Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd June 4, 1993
.Dt ADJTIME 2
.Os BSD 4.3
.Sh 名称
.Nm adjtime
.Nd "システムクロックとの同期化ができるように時刻を訂正する"
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.Fd #include <sys/time.h>
.Ft int
.Fn adjtime "const struct timeval *delta" "struct timeval *olddelta"
.Sh 解説
.Fn adjtime
は、
.Xr gettimeofday 2
が返すようなシステム時刻を微調整します。
時間値
.Fa delta
で指定された時間だけシステム時刻を進ませる、または遅らせます。
.Fa delta
が負の場合、
訂正が完了するまでクロックをよりゆっくりと増加させることによって
クロックを低速化します。
.Fa delta
が正の場合は通常より大きな増分を使用します。
訂正を実行するために使用されるずれは、
一般には 1 パーセントの割合です。これにより、時刻は常に単調増加関数となります。
以前の
.Fn adjtime
呼び出しによる時刻訂正が、再び
.Fn adjtime
が呼び出された時に完了していない可能性があります。
.Fa olddelta
が nil でない場合、指し示されている構造体は、
以前の呼び出しからの、依然として
訂正する必要のあるマイクロ秒単位の数が戻り時に格納されているでしょう。
.Pp
この呼び出しは、ローカルエリアネットワーク内のコンピュータのクロックを
同期するタイムサーバが使用することがあります。
このようなタイムサーバはマシンのクロックを低速化、または
高速化して、それらを平均ネットワーク時刻にします。
.Pp
.Fn adjtime
の呼び出しはスーパユーザに限定されています。
.Sh 戻り値
戻り値 0 は呼び出しが成功したことを示します。
戻り値 -1 はエラーが発生したことを示します。
この場合、エラーコードはグローバル変数
.Va errno
に保存されます。
.Sh エラー
.Fn adjtime
は次の場合に処理を失敗します。
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EFAULT
引数は、プロセスに割り当てられたアドレス空間の範囲外を指しています。
.It Bq Er EPERM
プロセスの実効ユーザ ID がスーパユーザのものではありません。
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr date 1 ,
.Xr gettimeofday 2 ,
.Xr timed 8 ,
.Xr timedc 8
.Rs
.%T "TSP: The Time Synchronization Protocol for UNIX 4.3BSD"
.%A R. Gusella
.%A S. Zatti
.Re
.Sh 歴史
.Fn adjtime
関数は
.Bx 4.3
で登場しました。
