.\" Copyright (c) 1999 Softweyr LLC.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY Softweyr LLC AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL Softweyr LLC OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/sys/aio_cancel.2,v 1.22 2003/01/13 10:37:11 tjr Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd January 19, 2000
.Dt AIO_CANCEL 2
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm aio_cancel
.Nd 未解決の非同期入出力操作をキャンセルする (REALTIME)
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.In aio.h
.Ft int
.Fn aio_cancel "int fildes" "struct aiocb * iocb"
.Sh 解説
.Fn aio_cancel
システムコールは
.Fa fildes
で指定されるファイル記述子の未解決の非同期入出力をキャンセルします。
.Fa iocb
が指定された場合、指定された非同期入出力要求だけをキャンセルします。
.Pp
通常の非同期通知がキャンセルされた要求に対して発生します。
要求は
.Er ECANCELED
のエラー結果となって完了します。
.Sh 制限
.Fn aio_cancel
システムコールは raw ディスクデバイスに対する非同期入出力を
キャンセルしません。
.Fn aio_cancel
システムコールは、raw ディスクデバイスに関連づけられたファイル記述子に
対しては常に
.Dv AIO_NOTCANCELED
を返します。
.Sh 戻り値
.Fn aio_cancel
システムコールは -1 を返してエラーまたは次のうちの一つを示します。
.Bl -tag -width Dv
.It Bq Dv AIO_CANCELED
指定された条件のすべての未解決要求はキャンセルされました。
.It Bq Dv AIO_NOTCANCELED
いくつかの要求はキャンセルされず、
その要求の状態は
.Xr aio_error 2
でチェックすべきです。
.It Bq Dv AIO_ALLDONE
条件に合致するすべての要求は完了しています。
.El
.Sh エラー
.Fn aio_cancel
から返されるエラーは、次のことを示します:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EBADF
.Fa fildes
引数が有効なファイル記述子ではありません。
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr aio_error 2 ,
.Xr aio_read 2 ,
.Xr aio_return 2 ,
.Xr aio_suspend 2 ,
.Xr aio_write 2 ,
.Xr aio 4
.Sh 規格
.Fn aio_cancel
システムコールは
.St -p1003.1
に適合しています。
.Sh 歴史
.Fn aio_cancel
システムコールは
.Fx 3.0
ではじめて登場しました。
機能する
.Fn aio_cancel
の実装は
.Fx 4.0
ではじめて登場しました。
.Sh 作者
.An -nosplit
このマニュアルは始めに
.An Wes Peters Aq wes@softweyr.com
が作成しました。
.Fn aio_cancel
が
.Fx 4.0
に実装された時に
.An Christopher M Sedore Aq cmsedore@maxwell.syr.edu
が更新しました。
