.\" Copyright (c) 1999 Softweyr LLC.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY Softweyr LLC AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL Softweyr LLC OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/sys/aio_return.2,v 1.5.2.4 2001/03/06 16:46:06 ru Exp %
.\"
.Dd June 2, 1999
.Dt AIO_RETURN 2
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm aio_return
.Nd 非同期入出力操作の戻りステータスを取り出す (REALTIME)
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.Fd #include <aio.h>
.Ft int
.Fn aio_return "struct aiocb *iocb"
.Sh 解説
.Fn aio_return
関数は
.Fa iocb
が指す構造体に対応する非同期入出力要求の最終ステータスを返します。
.Pp
.Xr aio_error 2
が
.Er EINPROGRESS
以外の何かを返した時の非同期入出力操作の最終ステータスを得るためには
.Fn aio_return
を 1 回だけしか呼び出してはいけません。
.Sh 戻り値
非同期入出力要求が完了すると
.Xr read 2 ,
.Xr write 2 ,
または
.Xr fsync 2
で説明したようなステータスが
返されます。処理を失敗した場合に
.Fn aio_return
は
.Dv -1
を返し、エラー状態を指すように
.Dv errno
を設定します。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr aio_cancel 2 ,
.Xr aio_error 2 ,
.Xr aio_read 2 ,
.Xr aio_suspend 2 ,
.Xr aio_write 2 ,
.Xr fsync 2 ,
.Xr read 2 ,
.Xr write 2
.Sh エラー
.Fn aio_return
は次の場合に失敗します。
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EINVAL
.Fa iocb
が未解決の非同期入出力要求を参照しません。
.El
.Sh 規格
.Fn aio_return
は
.St -p1003.2
に準拠しています。
.Sh 歴史
.Nm
関数は
.Fx 3.0
ではじめて登場しました。
.Sh 作者
このマニュアルページは
.An Wes Peters Aq wes@softweyr.com
が作成しました。
