.\" Copyright (c) 1999 Softweyr LLC.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY Softweyr LLC AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL Softweyr LLC OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/sys/aio_suspend.2,v 1.4.2.2 1999/08/29 14:48:56 peter Exp %
.\"
.Dd June 2, 1999
.Dt AIO_SUSPEND 2
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm aio_suspend
.Nd 非同期入出力操作完了、またはタイムアウト経過まで延期する (REALTIME)
.Sh 書式
.Fd #include <aio.h>
.Ft int
.Fn aio_suspend "const struct aiocb * const iocbs[]" "int niocb" "const struct timespec * timeout"
.Sh 解説
指定の非同期入出力要求が完了するか、
.Ar timeout
が経過するまで
.Fn aio_suspend
関数は呼び出しプロセスを延期します。
.Ar iocbs
は、非同期入出力要求への
.Ar niocb
ポインタの配列です。
NULL が入っている配列メンバはそのまま無視されます。
.Sh 戻り値
指定されたすべての非同期入出力要求が完了すると
.Fn aio_suspend
は 0 を返します。
.Ar timeout
が時間切れになると
.Dv EAGAIN
が返されます。他の戻り値は後述するようにエラー状態を示します。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr aio_cancel 2 ,
.Xr aio_error 2 ,
.Xr aio_read 2 ,
.Xr aio_suspend 2 ,
.Xr aio_write 2 .
.Sh エラー
.Fn aio_suspend
関数は次の場合に失敗します。
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EINVAL
.Ar iocbs
には
.Dv AIO_LISTIO_MAX
を越える非同期入出力要求が入っているか、または少なくとも 1 つの要求が
有効ではありません。
.It Bq Er EINTR
延期はシグナルによって割り込みされました。
.El
.Sh 規格
.Fn aio_suspend
は
.St -p1003.2
標準に準拠しています。
.Sh 歴史
.Nm
関数は
.Fx 3.0
ではじめて登場しました。
.Sh 作者
このマニュアルページは
.An Wes Peters Aq wes@softweyr.com
が作成しました。
