.\" Copyright (c) 1999 Softweyr LLC.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY Softweyr LLC AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL Softweyr LLC OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/sys/aio_error.2,v 1.6.2.4 2001/03/06 16:46:06 ru Exp %
.\"
.Dd June 2, 1999
.Dt AIO_ERROR 2
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm aio_error
.Nd 非同期入出力操作のエラーステータスを取り出す (REALTIME)
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.Fd #include <aio.h>
.Ft int
.Fn aio_error "const struct aiocb *iocb"
.Sh 解説
.Fn aio_error
関数は、
.Fa iocb
の指す構造体に対応する非同期入出力要求のエラー状態を返します。
.Sh 戻り値
非同期入出力要求が成功した上で正常に完了している場合に
.Fn aio_error
は 0 を返します。
要求がまだ完了していない場合は
.Er EINPROGRESS
が返されます。
要求が失敗した上で完了している場合、
.Xr read 2 ,
.Xr write 2 ,
.Xr fsync 2 ,
に記述されているようなエラーステータスが返されます。
処理が失敗した場合に
.Fn aio_error
は
.Dv -1
を返し、
.Dv errno
を設定してエラー状態を示します。
.Sh エラー
.Fn aio_error
は次の場合に失敗します:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EINVAL
.Fa iocb
が未解決の非同期 I/O 要求を参照していません。
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr aio_cancel 2 ,
.Xr aio_read 2 ,
.Xr aio_return 2 ,
.Xr aio_suspend 2 ,
.Xr aio_write 2 ,
.Xr fsync 2 ,
.Xr read 2 ,
.Xr write 2
.Sh 規格
.Fn aio_error
関数は
.St -p1003.2
に準拠しています。
.Sh 歴史
.Nm
関数は
.Fx 3.0
ではじめて登場しました。
.Sh 作者
このマニュアルページは
.An Wes Peters Aq wes@softweyr.com
が作成しました。
