.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1991, 1993
.\"     The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"     This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"     California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)chdir.2     8.2 (Berkeley) 12/11/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/sys/chdir.2,v 1.7.2.1 2000/04/22 17:06:49 phantom Exp %
.\"
.Dd December 11, 1993
.Dt CHDIR 2
.Os BSD 4
.Sh 名称
.Nm chdir ,
.Nm fchdir
.Nd 現在の作業ディレクトリを変更する
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.Fd #include <unistd.h>
.Ft int
.Fn chdir "const char *path"
.Ft int
.Fn fchdir "int fd"
.Sh 解説
.Fa path
引数は、ディレクトリのパス名を指します。
.Fn chdir
関数によって、指定されたディレクトリが
現在の作業ディレクトリ、すなわちスラッシュ
.Ql /
で開始しないパス名のパス検索の開始点になります。
.Pp
.Fn fchdir
関数によって、
.Fa fd
が参照するディレクトリが
現在の作業ディレクトリ (スラッシュ
.Ql /
で開始しないパス名のパス検索の開始点) になります。
.Pp
ディレクトリが現在の作業ディレクトリになるためには、
プロセスがそのディレクトリへの
実行 (検索) アクセス許可を持っている必要があります。
.Sh 戻り値
処理が正常に完了すると、値 0 が返されます。
そうでない場合は -1 が返され、エラーを示すために
.Va errno
が設定されます。
.Sh エラー
次の 1 つまたは複数が真の場合、
.Fn chdir
の処理は失敗し、現在の作業ディレクトリは変更されません。
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er ENOTDIR
パスの構成要素中にディレクトリ以外のものが含まれています。
.It Bq Er ENAMETOOLONG
パス名の構成要素が 255 文字を越えているか、
またはパス名全体が 1023 文字を越えています。
.It Bq Er ENOENT
指定されたディレクトリが存在しません。
.It Bq Er ELOOP
パス名を変換するときに検出されたシンボリックリンクが多すぎます。
.It Bq Er EACCES
パス名の構成要素のいずれかで、検索が許可されていません。
.It Bq Er EFAULT
.Fa path
は、プロセスに割り当てられたアドレス空間の範囲外を指しています。
.It Bq Er EIO
ファイルシステムに読み書きしている間に入出力エラーが発生しました。
.El
.Pp
次の 1 つまたは複数が真の場合、
.Fn fchdir
の処理は失敗し、現在の作業ディレクトリは変更されません。
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EACCES
ファイル記述子が参照するディレクトリで検索が許可されていません。
.It Bq Er ENOTDIR
ファイル記述子がディレクトリを参照していません。
.It Bq Er EBADF
引数
.Fa fd
が有効なファイル記述子ではありません。
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr chroot 2
.Sh 規格
.Fn chdir
関数は
.St -p1003.1-90
に準拠しています。
.Sh 歴史
.Fn chdir
関数は
.At v7
で登場しました。
.Fn fchdir
関数は
.Bx 4.2
で登場しました。
