.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)chroot.2	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/sys/chroot.2,v 1.7.2.3 2000/12/08 13:49:31 ru Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd June 4, 1993
.Dt CHROOT 2
.Os BSD 4.2
.Sh 名称
.Nm chroot
.Nd ルートディレクトリを変更する
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.Fd #include <unistd.h>
.Ft int
.Fn chroot "const char *dirname"
.Sh 解説
.Fa dirname
は、ASCII のヌル文字で終了するディレクトリのパス名のアドレスです。
.Fn chroot
は、
.Fa dirname
をルートディレクトリ、すなわち、
.Ql /
で開始するパス名のパス検索の
開始点にします。
.Pp
ディレクトリがルートディレクトリになるためには、
プロセスにそのディレクトリへの実行 (検索) 許可がなければなりません。
.Pp
.Fn chroot
はプロセスの現在のディレクトリに影響しないことに注意する必要があります。
.Pp
この関数を呼び出せるのはスーパユーザのみです。
.Pp
ディレクトリを参照するオープンファイル記述子が存在する場合、
.Fn chroot
呼び出しは sysctl 変数
.Ql kern.chroot_allow_open_directories
の設定に従い、次のように失敗します:
.Pp
.Ql kern.chroot_allow_open_directories
が 0 に設定されている場合、ディレクトリがオープンされていれば
.Fn chroot
は常に
.Er EPERM
で失敗します。
.Pp
.Ql kern.chroot_allow_open_directories
が 1 にセットされている場合 (デフォルト)、
ディレクトリがオープンされていて、そのプロセスが
.Fn chroot
呼び出しの影響を受ける場合、
.Er EPERM
で失敗します。
.Pp
.Ql kern.chroot_allow_open_directories
が他の値の場合、オープンディレクトリのチェックはされません。
.Pp
正常に完了すると、値 0 が返されます。そうでない場合は、値 -1 が返され、
エラーを示すために
.Va errno
が設定されます。
.Sh エラー
.Fn chroot
は、次の場合、処理に失敗し、ルートディレクトリは変更されません。
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er ENOTDIR
パスの構成要素中にディレクトリ以外のものが含まれています。
.It Bq Er EPERM
実効ユーザ ID がスーパユーザではありません。またはディレクトリが
1 つ以上のファイル記述子によってオープンされています。
.It Bq Er ENAMETOOLONG
パス名の構成要素が 255 文字を越えているか、
またはパス名全体が 1023 文字を越えています。
.It Bq Er ENOENT
指定のディレクトリが存在しません。
.It Bq Er EACCES
指定されたパスには、検索が許可されていないディレクトリが含まれています。
.It Bq Er ELOOP
パス名を変換するときに検出されたシンボリックリンクが多すぎます。
.It Bq Er EFAULT
.Fa path
は、プロセスに割り当てられたアドレス空間の範囲外を指しています。
.It Bq Er EIO
ファイルシステムに読み書きしている間に入出力エラーが発生しました。
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr chdir 2
.Sh 歴史
.Fn chroot
関数は
.Bx 4.2
で登場しました。
