.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)fork.2	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/sys/fork.2,v 1.7.2.2 1999/09/18 16:18:59 phantom Exp %
.\"
.Dd June 4, 1993
.Dt FORK 2
.Os BSD 4
.Sh 名称
.Nm fork
.Nd 新しいプロセスを作成する
.Sh 書式
.Fd #include <sys/types.h>
.Fd #include <unistd.h>
.Ft pid_t
.Fn fork void
.Sh 解説
.Fn fork
によって新しいプロセスの作成が行われます。新しいプロセス (子プロセス)は、
以下の項目を除いた呼び出しプロセス (親プロセス) の正確なコピーです。
.Bl -bullet -offset indent
.It
子プロセスはユニークなプロセス ID を持ちます。
.It
子プロセスは異なる親プロセス ID を持ちます
(すなわち、親プロセスのプロセス ID です)。
.It
子プロセスは、専用の、親の記述子のコピーを持ちます。
それらの記述子は下層の同じオブジェクトを参照します。
つまり子と親の間で、たとえばファイルオブジェクト内の
ファイルポインタが共有されます。そのため
子プロセスの記述子への
.Xr lseek 2
が、その後の親による
.Xr read 2
または
.Xr write 2
に影響を及ぼします。この記述子コピーは、
新しく作成されたプロセス用の標準入出力を確立するために、
およびパイプをセットアップするために、シェルによっても使用されます。
.It
子プロセスのリソース使用状況は 0 に設定されます。
.Xr setrlimit 2
を参照してください。
.El
.Sh 戻り値
正常に完了した場合、
.Fn fork
は、子プロセスに値 0 を返し、子プロセスのプロセス ID を親プロセスに返します。
そうでない場合は -1 が親プロセスに返され、子プロセスは作成されずに、
エラーを示すためにグローバル変数
.Va errno
が設定されます。
.Sh エラー
次の場合に
.Fn fork
は処理に失敗し、子プロセスは作成されません。
.Bl -tag -width [EAGAIN]
.It Bq Er EAGAIN
実行中のプロセスの合計数についてシステムが課する限界を超えます。限界値は
.Xr sysctl 3
の MIB 変数の
.Dv KERN_MAXPROC
によって指定されます (スーパユーザを除いて、
実際には限界はこれより 1 つ小さくなります)。
.It Bq Er EAGAIN
ユーザがスーパユーザでなく、
1 人のユーザによって実行中のプロセスの合計数にシステムが課す
限界を越えます。限界は
.Xr sysctl 3
の MIB 変数の
.Dv KERN_MAXPROCPERUID
によって指定されます。
.It Bq Er EAGAIN
ユーザがスーパユーザでなく、リソースパラメータの
.Dv RLIMIT_NPROC
に対応するソフトリソース限界を越えます。
.Pf ( Xr getrlimit 2
を参照)。
.It Bq Er ENOMEM
新しいプロセス用のスワップ空間が不充分です。
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr execve 2 ,
.Xr rfork 2 ,
.Xr setrlimit 2 ,
.Xr vfork 2 ,
.Xr wait 2
.Sh 歴史
.Fn fork
関数は
.At v6
で登場しました。
