.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)fsync.2	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/sys/fsync.2,v 1.6.2.5 2000/12/29 14:44:52 ru Exp %
.\"
.Dd June 4, 1993
.Dt FSYNC 2
.Os BSD 4.2
.Sh 名称
.Nm fsync
.Nd "ファイルに変更を同期する"
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.Fd #include <unistd.h>
.Ft int
.Fn fsync "int fd"
.Sh 解説
.Fn fsync
によって、
.Fa fd
の修正されたすべてのデータと属性が永続的なストレージデバイスに移動されます。
これによって、対応するファイルに関するバッファのすべての
メモリ上のコピーで、修正された物がディスクに書き込まれる結果になるのが
普通です。
.Pp
.Fn fsync
は、ファイルが既知の状態にあることを要求するプログラムによって
使用される必要があります。たとえば、簡単なトランザクション機能の構築です。
.Sh システムの注意事項
.Pp
非スレッドライブラリでは、
.Fn fsync
は
.Va fsync
システムコールとして実装されています。
.Pp
スレッドライブラリでは、
.Va fsync
システムコールは
.Fn _thread_sys_fsync
にアセンブルされ、
.Fn fsync
は、読取りと書込みについて
.Fa fd
をロックしてから
.Fn _thread_sys_fsync
を呼び出す関数として実装されています。戻る前に
.Fn fsync
は
.Fa fd
をアンロックします。
.Sh 戻り値
正常に完了すると値 0 が返されます。値 -1 はエラーを示します。
.Sh エラー
.Fn fsync
は次の場合に失敗します。
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EBADF
.Fa fd
が有効な記述子ではありません。
.It Bq Er EINVAL
.Fa fd
がファイルではなくソケットを参照しています。
.It Bq Er EIO
ファイルシステムに読み書きしている間に入出力エラーが発生しました。
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr sync 2 ,
.Xr syncer 4 ,
.Xr sync 8
.Sh 歴史
.Fn fsync
関数は
.Bx 4.2
で登場しました。
