.\" Copyright (c) 1989, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)getfsstat.2	8.3 (Berkeley) 5/25/95
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/sys/getfsstat.2,v 1.7.2.2 2000/12/08 13:49:31 ru Exp %
.\"
.Dd May 25, 1995
.Dt GETFSSTAT 2
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm getfsstat
.Nd マウントされたすべてのファイルシステムのリストを得る
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.Fd #include <sys/param.h>
.Fd #include <sys/ucred.h>
.Fd #include <sys/mount.h>
.Ft int
.Fn getfsstat "struct statfs *buf" "long bufsize" "int flags"
.Sh 解説
.Fn getfsstat
は、マウントされたすべてのファイルシステムに関する情報を返します。
.Fa buf
は
次のように定義される
.Xr statfs
構造体へのポインタです。
.Bd -literal
typedef struct fsid { int32_t val[2]; } fsid_t;	/* ファイルシステム ID タイプ */

/*
 * ファイルシステム統計
 */

#define MFSNAMELEN 16	/* ファイルシステムのタイプ名長、ヌルを含む */
#define MNAMELEN   90	/* 返された名前についてのバッファの長さ */

struct statfs {
    long    f_spare2;		/* プレースホルダ */
    long    f_bsize;		/* 基本的なファイルシステムのブロックサイズ */
    long    f_iosize;		/* 最適な転送ブロックサイズ */
    long    f_blocks;		/* ファイルシステム内の合計データブロック */
    long    f_bfree;		/* ファイルシステム内の未使用のブロック */
    long    f_bavail;		/* スーパユーザ以外のユーザが利用できる未使用のブロック */
    long    f_files;		/* ファイルシステム内の合計ファイルノード */
    long    f_ffree;		/* ファイルシステム内の未使用のファイルノード */
    fsid_t  f_fsid;		/* ファイルシステム ID */
    uid_t   f_owner;		/* ファイルシステムをマウントしたユーザ */
    int     f_type;		/* ファイルシステムのタイプ (下記を参照) */
    int     f_flags;		/* マウントフラグのコピー */
    long    f_spare[2];		/* 後のための余白 */
    char    f_fstypename[MFSNAMELEN];/* ファイルシステムのタイプ名 */
    char    f_mntonname[MNAMELEN];/* マウントされたディレクトリ */
    char    f_mntfromname[MNAMELEN];/* マウントされたファイルシステム */
};
.Ed
.Pp
返される可能性のあるフラグには次のものが含まれます。
.Bl -tag -width MNT_ASYNCHRONOUS
.It Dv MNT_RDONLY
ファイルシステムは読取り専用としてマウントされています。
スーパユーザも書込みすることはできません。
.It Dv MNT_NOEXEC
そのファイルシステム上のファイルを実行することはできません。
.It Dv MNT_NOSUID
実行されるときに、ファイルの setuid ビットと setgid ビットが
効果を持ちません。
.It Dv MNT_NODEV
ファイルシステム内の特殊ファイルは開けません。
.It Dv MNT_SYNCHRONOUS
ファイルシステムへのすべての入出力が同期的に実行されます。
.It Dv MNT_ASYNCHRONOUS
ファイルシステム入出力が同期的に実行されません。
.It Dv MNT_LOCAL
ローカルにあるファイルシステムです。
.It Dv MNT_QUOTA
ファイルシステム上でクオータが有効になっています。
.It Dv MNT_ROOTFS
ルートファイルシステムであることを示します。
.It Dv MNT_EXRDONLY
ファイルシステムは読取り専用でエクスポートされています。
.It Dv MNT_EXPORTED
ファイルシステムは読取りと書込みの両方についてエクスポートされています。
.It Dv MNT_DEFEXPORTED
ファイルシステムはどのインターネットホストへも読取りと書込みの両方について
エクスポートされています。
.It Dv MNT_EXPORTANON
ファイルシステムはすべてのリモートアクセスを匿名ユーザへマップします。
.It Dv MNT_EXKERB
ファイルシステムは Kerberos uid マッピングでエクスポートされています。
.El
.Pp
特定のファイルシステムについて未定義となるフィールドは -1 に設定されます。
バッファは
.Fa fsstat
構造体の配列で埋められます。
マウントされた各ファイルシステムについて 1 つずつ、最高
.Fa bufsize
で指定されたサイズまでです。
.Pp
.Fa buf
として NULL が指定されている場合、
.Fn getfsstat
はマウントされているファイルシステムの数のみを返します。
.Pp
通常、
.Fa flags
には
.Dv MNT_WAIT
を指定するべきです。
.Fa flags
として
.Dv MNT_NOWAIT
が指定されている場合、
.Fn getfsstat
は各ファイルシステムからの更新を要求せずに利用できる情報を返します。
そのため、情報のうちには古くなっているものがあるでしょうが、
.Fn getfsstat
は応答できないファイルシステムからの情報を
待機してブロックすることはありません。
.Sh 戻り値
正常に完了すると
.Fa fsstat
構造体の数が返されます。そうでない場合は -1 が返され、エラーを示すために
グローバル変数
.Va errno
が設定されます。
.Sh エラー
.Fn getfsstat
は以下の 1 つでも真の場合、処理に失敗します。
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EFAULT
.Fa buf
が無効なアドレスを指しています。
.It Bq Er EIO
ファイルシステムを読み書きしている間に
.Tn I/O
(入出力) エラーが発生しました。
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr statfs 2 ,
.Xr fstab 5 ,
.Xr mount 8
.Sh 歴史
.Fn getfsstat
関数は
.Bx 4.4
ではじめて登場しました。
