.\" Copyright (c) 1989, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)getfh.2	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/9/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/sys/getfh.2,v 1.15 2004/04/06 09:06:45 dfr Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd April 6, 2004
.Dt GETFH 2
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm getfh ,
.Nm lgetfh
.Nd ファイルハンドルを得る
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.In sys/param.h
.In sys/mount.h
.Ft int
.Fn getfh "const char *path" "fhandle_t *fhp"
.Ft int
.Fn lgetfh "const char *path" "fhandle_t *fhp"
.Sh 解説
.Fn getfh
システムコールは指定のファイルまたはディレクトリのファイルハンドルを
.Fa fhp
が指すファイルハンドルの格納領域に返します。
.Fn lgetfh
システムコールは、指定されたファイルがシンボリックリンクであった場合を除いて
.Fn getfh
と同様です。
この場合には
.Fn lgetfh
はそのリンクについての情報を返し、一方
.Fn getfh
はそのリンクが参照するファイルについての情報を返します。
これらのシステムコールはスーパユーザに限定されます。
.Sh 戻り値
.Rv -std
.Sh エラー
.Fn getfh
および
.Fn lgetfh
システムコールは以下の 1 つでも真の場合、処理に失敗します:
.\" 原文: .Fn lgetfgh は .Fn lgetfh の誤り。
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er ENOTDIR
.Fa path
の構成要素中にディレクトリ以外のものが含まれています。
.It Bq Er ENAMETOOLONG
.Fa path
の構成要素が 255 文字を越えているか、または
.Fa path
が 1023 文字を越えています。
.It Bq Er ENOENT
.Fa path
が参照するファイルが存在しません。
.It Bq Er EACCES
.Fa path
に検索が許可されていないディレクトリが含まれています。
.It Bq Er ELOOP
.Fa path
を変換するときに検出されたシンボリックリンクが多すぎます。
.It Bq Er EFAULT
.Fa fhp
引数が無効なアドレスを指しています。
.It Bq Er EIO
ファイルシステムに読み書きしている間に
.Tn I/O
(入出力) エラーが発生しました。
.El
.Sh 歴史
.Fn getfh
システムコールは
.Bx 4.4
ではじめて登場しました。
