.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)getgroups.2	8.2 (Berkeley) 4/16/94
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/sys/getgroups.2,v 1.12 2002/12/19 09:40:24 ru Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd March 5, 1999
.Dt GETGROUPS 2
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm getgroups
.Nd グループアクセスリストを取得
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.In sys/types.h
.In unistd.h
.Ft int
.Fn getgroups "int gidsetlen" "gid_t *gidset"
.Sh 解説
.Fn getgroups
システムコールは、ユーザプロセスの現在のグループアクセスリストを取得し、
それを配列
.Fa gidset
に保存します。
.Fa gidsetlen
引数は
.Fa gidset
内に配置できるエントリの数を示します。
.Fn getgroups
システムコールは、
.Fa gidset
に返された実際のグループの数を返します。
.Dv NGROUPS_MAX
より大きい値は返しません。
.Fa gidsetlen
が 0 の場合には
.Fn getgroups
は、
.Fa gidset
が指し示す配列を修正せずに、
呼び出したプロセスに対応する補助グループ ID の数を返します。
.Sh 戻り値
呼び出しが正常に完了すると、グループセット内のグループの数が返されます。
戻り値 -1 はエラーが起こったことを示し、
エラーコードはグローバル変数
.Va errno
に保存されます。
.Sh エラー
.Fn getgroups
で起こり得るエラーは次のとおりです:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EINVAL
引数
.Fa gidsetlen
がグループセット内のグループの数より小さいです。
.It Bq Er EFAULT
引数
.Fa gidset
は無効なアドレスを指しています。
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr setgroups 2 ,
.Xr initgroups 3
.Sh 歴史
.Fn getgroups
システムコールは
.Bx 4.2
で登場しました。
