.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)getpeername.2	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/sys/getpeername.2,v 1.9.2.4 2000/08/23 00:45:18 jhb Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd June 4, 1993
.Dt GETPEERNAME 2
.Os BSD 4.2
.Sh 名称
.Nm getpeername
.Nd 接続されたピア (通信相手) の名前の取得
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.Fd #include <sys/types.h>
.Fd #include <sys/socket.h>
.Ft int
.Fn getpeername "int s" "struct sockaddr *name" "socklen_t *namelen"
.Sh 解説
.Fn getpeername
は、ソケット
.Fa s
に接続されたピア (通信相手) の名前を返します。
.Fa namelen
パラメータには、
.Fa name
が指す空間の量を示す値を入れておく必要があります。
戻る時に、これには返された名前の
実際のサイズ (バイト単位) が入れられます。
準備されたバッファが小さすぎる場合、名前は切り捨てられます。
.Sh 実装に関する注
.Pp
非スレッドライブラリでは、
.Fn getpeername
は
.Va getpeername
システムコールとして実装されています。
.Pp
スレッドライブラリでは、
.Va getpeername
システムコールは
.Fn _thread_sys_getpeername
にアセンブルされ、
.Fn getpeername
は、読取りと書込みについて
.Fa s
をロックしてから
.Fn _thread_sys_getpeername
を呼び出す関数として実装されています。戻る前に
.Fn getpeername
は
.Fa s
をアンロックします。
.Sh 戻り値
呼び出しが正常に完了すると 0 が返され、処理を失敗すると -1 が返されます。
.Sh エラー
以降の場合を除いて呼び出しは処理に成功します。
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EBADF
引数
.Fa s
が有効な記述子ではありません。
.It Bq Er ECONNRESET
接続がピアによってリセットされました。
.It Bq Er ENOTSOCK
引数
.Fa s
はソケットではなくファイルです。
.It Bq Er ENOTCONN
ソケットが接続されていません。
.It Bq Er ENOBUFS
操作を実行するための十分なリソースがシステムにありません。
.It Bq Er EFAULT
.Fa name
パラメータは、プロセスのアドレス空間の有効な領域の範囲外を指しています。
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr accept 2 ,
.Xr bind 2 ,
.Xr getsockname 2 ,
.Xr socket 2
.Sh 歴史
.Fn getpeername
関数は
.Bx 4.2
で登場しました。
