.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)getpid.2	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/sys/getpid.2,v 1.8.2.2 2001/02/18 02:36:34 kris Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd June 4, 1993
.Dt GETPID 2
.Os BSD 4
.Sh 名称
.Nm getpid ,
.Nm getppid
.Nd 親または呼び出しプロセスの識別子を取得
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.Fd #include <sys/types.h>
.Fd #include <unistd.h>
.Ft pid_t
.Fn getpid void
.Ft pid_t
.Fn getppid void
.Sh 解説
.Fn getpid
は呼び出しプロセスのプロセス ID を返します。
ID はユニークであることが保証されていますが、
テンポラリファイル名の作成に利用しては
.Em いけません。
セキュリティ上の理由については、
.Xr mkstemp 3
を参照してください。
.Pp
.Fn getppid
は呼び出しプロセスの親のプロセス ID を返します。
.Sh エラー
.Fn getpid
関数と
.Fn getppid
関数は必ず正常に完了するので、エラーを示すための戻り値はありません。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr gethostid 3
.Sh 規格
.Fn getpid
関数と
.Fn getppid
関数は
.St -p1003.1-90
に準拠しています。
.Sh 歴史
.Fn getpid
関数は
.At v7
で登場しました。
