.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)getpriority.2	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/sys/getpriority.2,v 1.4.2.1 2000/04/22 17:06:54 phantom Exp %
.\"
.Dd June 4, 1993
.Dt GETPRIORITY 2
.Os BSD 4
.Sh 名称
.Nm getpriority ,
.Nm setpriority
.Nd プログラムスケジュール優先順位を取得 / 設定
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.Fd #include <sys/time.h>
.Fd #include <sys/resource.h>
.Ft int
.Fn getpriority "int which" "int who"
.Ft int
.Fn setpriority "int which" "int who" "int prio"
.Sh 解説
.Fa which
および
.Fa who
で指示されるプロセス、プロセスグループ、
またはユーザのスケジュール優先順位は
.Fn getpriority
呼び出しで取得され、
.Fn setpriority
呼び出しで設定されます。
.Fa which
は、
.Dv PRIO_PROCESS ,
.Dv PRIO_PGRP
または
.Dv PRIO_USER
のどれかであり、
.Fa who
は
.Fa which
に関連して解釈されます
.Dv ( PRIO_PROCESS
の場合はプロセス識別子、
.Dv PRIO_PGRP
の場合はプロセスグループ識別子、および
.Dv PRIO_USER
の場合はユーザ ID)。
.Fa who
の値が 0 であるのは、
現在のプロセス、プロセスグループ、またはユーザを表します。
.Fa prio
は -20 から 20 の範囲の値です。
デフォルトの優先順位は 0 です。
優先順位が低いと、スケジュール調整にはより都合がよくなります。
.Pp
.Fn getpriority
呼び出しは、指定のプロセスのいずれかが享受する最高の優先順位を
返してきます (最も小さい数値です)。
.Fn setpriority
呼び出しは、指定されたすべてのプロセスの優先順位を指定の値に
設定します。スーパユーザだけが優先順位を低くできます。
.Sh 戻り値
.Fn getpriority
は処理を正しく完了しても値 -1 を返すことがあるので、
呼び出しの前に外部変数
.Va errno
をクリアしてから、後にこれをチェックして -1 がエラーであるか、
または正当な値であるか判定する必要があります。エラーがない場合
.Fn setpriority
呼び出しは 0 を返し、エラーがある場合は -1 を返します。
.Sh エラー
.Fn getpriority
と
.Fn setpriority
は次の場合に失敗します。
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er ESRCH
指定された
.Fa which
と
.Fa who
の値を使用して、プロセスが見つかりませんでした。
.It Bq Er EINVAL
.Fa which
が
.Dv PRIO_PROCESS ,
.Dv PRIO_PGRP
または
.Dv PRIO_USER
のどれでもありませんでした。
.El
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width Er
上記のエラーだけでなく、
.Fn setpriority
は次の場合に失敗します。
.It Bq Er EPERM
プロセスは検出されたものの、その実効 ID も実ユーザ ID の
どちらも、呼び出し側の実効ユーザ ID に一致しませんでした。
.It Bq Er EACCES
スーパユーザでないものがプロセスの優先順位を下げようとしました。
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr nice 1 ,
.Xr fork 2 ,
.Xr renice 8
.Sh 歴史
.Fn getpriority
関数は
.Bx 4.2
ではじめて登場しました。
