.\" Copyright (c) 1997 Peter Wemm <peter@freebsd.org>
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/sys/getsid.2,v 1.3.2.1 2000/04/22 17:06:55 phantom Exp %
.\"
.Dd August 19, 1997
.Dt GETSID 2
.Os BSD 4.2
.Sh 名称
.Nm getsid
.Nd プロセスセッションを得る
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.Fd #include <unistd.h>
.Ft pid_t
.Fn getsid "pid_t pid"
.Sh 解説
.Fn getsid
は
.Fa pid
によって識別されるプロセスのセッション ID を
返します。
.Fa pid
が 0 の場合、
.Fn getsid
は現在のプロセスのセッション ID を返します。
.Sh 戻り値
処理が正常に完了すると、関数
.Fn getsid
は指定されたプロセスのセッション ID を返します。
そうでない場合は値 -1 が返され、エラーを示すために
.Fa errno
が設定されます。
.Sh エラー
.Fn getsid
は次の場合を除いて正常に完了します。
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er ESRCH
.Fa pid
で指定されたプロセス ID を持つプロセスがない場合
.El
.Pp
実装によっては、この関数呼び出しを呼び出しプロセスと
同じセッション ID を持つプロセスに制限する可能性が
あることに注意してください。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr getpgid 2 ,
.Xr getpgrp 2 ,
.Xr setpgid 2 ,
.Xr setsid 2 ,
.Xr termios 4
.Sh 歴史
.Fn getsid
関数は
.Fx 3.0
ではじめて登場しました。
.Fn getsid
.\" jp-man: getsid.2 の原文は setsid になっていました。
.\" 2001/03/09 send-pr 済 (docs/25626)
関数呼び出しは
.At V
での使用法に由来しています。
