.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)getsockname.2	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/sys/getsockname.2,v 1.9.2.4 2000/08/23 00:45:18 jhb Exp %
.\"
.Dd June 4, 1993
.Dt GETSOCKNAME 2
.Os BSD 4.2
.Sh 名称
.Nm getsockname
.Nd ソケットの名前を得る
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.Fd #include <sys/types.h>
.Fd #include <sys/socket.h>
.Ft int
.Fn getsockname "int s" "struct sockaddr *name" "socklen_t *namelen"
.Sh 解説
.Fn getsockname
は指定のソケットについて現在の
.Fa name
を返します。
.Fa namelen
パラメータは、
.Fa name
が指す空間の量を示すように初期化しておく必要があります。
戻る時には返された名前の実際のサイズ (バイト単位) が入ります。
.Sh システムの注意事項
.Pp
非スレッドライブラリでは、
.Fn getsockname
は
.Va getsockname
システムコールとして実装されています。
.Pp
スレッドライブラリでは、
.Va getsockname
システムコールは
.Fn _thread_sys_getsockname
にアセンブルされ、
.Fn getsockname
は、読み書きについて
.Fa fd
をロックしてから
.Fn _thread_sys_getsockname
を呼び出す関数として実装されています。戻る前に
.Fn getsockname
は
.Fa fd
をアンロックします。
.Sh 戻り値
呼び出しが正常に完了すると 0 が返され、
処理に失敗すると -1 が返されます。
.Sh エラー
呼び出しは、次の場合を除いて正常に完了します。
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EBADF
引数
.Fa s
が有効な記述子ではありません。
.It Bq Er ECONNRESET
接続が通信相手によってリセットされました。
.It Bq Er ENOTSOCK
引数
.Fa s
はソケットではなくファイルです。
.It Bq Er ENOBUFS
操作を実行するためにシステム内で利用できるリソースが不足しています。
.It Bq Er EFAULT
.Fa name
パラメータが、プロセスアドレス空間の有効な部分内でないメモリを
指しています。
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr bind 2 ,
.Xr getpeername 2 ,
.Xr socket 2
.Sh バグ
UNIX ドメイン内のソケットにバインドされた名前にはアクセスできません。
この場合
.Xr getsockname
は、長さが 0 の名前を返します。
.Sh 歴史
.Fn getsockname
関数は
.Bx 4.2
ではじめて登場しました。
