.\" Copyright (c) 1998 Jonathan Lemon
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/i386/sys/i386_get_ioperm.2,v 1.2.2.1 1999/08/29 14:47:00 peter Exp %
.\"
.Dd July 27, 1998
.Os
.Dt I386_GET_IOPERM 2
.Sh 名称
.Nm i386_get_ioperm ,
.Nm i386_set_ioperm
.Nd i386 入出力ポート空間へのプロセスごとのアクセスを管理する
.Sh 書式
.Fd #include <machine/sysarch.h>
.Ft int
.Fn i386_get_ioperm "unsigned int start" "unsigned int *length" "int *enable"
.Ft int
.Fn i386_set_ioperm "unsigned int start" "unsigned int length" "int enable"
.Sh 解説
.Fn i386_get_ioperm
は、プロセスの入出力ポート空間についてのパーミッションを
.Fa *enable
引数内に返します。ポートの範囲は
.Fa start
で開始し、連続エントリの数が
.Fa *length
内に返されます。
.Pp
.Fn i386_set_ioperm
は、
.Fa start
引数と
.Fa length
引数によって記述された入出力ポートの範囲へのアクセスを
.Fa enable
引数で指定された状態に設定します。
.Sh 戻り値
正常に完了すると、
.Fn i386_get_ioperm
と
.Fn i386_set_ioperm
は値 0 を返します。そうでない場合は -1 が返され、
エラーを示すためにグローバル変数
.Va errno
が設定されます。
.Sh エラー
.Fn i386_get_ioperm
と
.Fn i386_set_ioperm
は次の場合に失敗します。
.Bl -tag -width [EINVAL]
.It Bq Er EINVAL
.Fa start
または
.Fa length
引数に無効な範囲が指定されました。
.It Bq Er EPERM
i386_set_ioperm の呼び出し側がスーパユーザではありませんでした。
.El
.Sh 作者
このマニュアルページは
.An Jonathan Lemon
が作成しました。
