.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1991 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     from: @(#)fork.2	6.5 (Berkeley) 3/10/91
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/i386/sys/i386_get_ldt.2,v 1.21 2004/07/02 19:07:30 ru Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd September 20, 1993
.Dt I386_GET_LDT 2
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm i386_get_ldt ,
.Nm i386_set_ldt
.Nd i386 プロセスごとのローカル記述子テーブルエントリを管理する
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.In machine/segments.h
.In machine/sysarch.h
.Ft int
.Fn i386_get_ldt "int start_sel" "union descriptor *descs" "int num_sels"
.Ft int
.Fn i386_set_ldt "int start_sel" "union descriptor *descs" "int num_sels"
.Sh 解説
.Fn i386_get_ldt
システムコールはプロセスの LDT の中にある i386 記述子のリストを返します。
.Fn i386_set_ldt
システムコールは現在のプロセスのための i386 記述子のリストを、
そのプロセスの LDT に設定します。
両方のルーチンは、開始するセレクタ番号の
.Fa start_sel
と、設定する記述子の入った、または記述子が返されるメモリの配列の
.Fa descs
および設定または返されるエントリ数の
.Fa num_sels
を受け取ります。
.Pp
引数
.Fa descs
は、
.In i386/segments.h
で定義されている
segment_descriptor または gate_descriptor であることができます。
これらの構成要素は、アーキテクチャに対応して
ばらばらになったビットフィールドとして定義されているので、
それらを組み立てる際には注意を払う必要があります。
.Pp
.Fa start_sel
が
.Em LDT_AUTO_ALLOC
で、
.Fa num_sels
が 1 で、
.Fa descs
によって指される記述子が正当である場合には、
.Fn i386_set_ldt
は記述子を割り当てて、そのセレクタ番号を返します。
.Pp
.Fa num_descs
が 1 で、
.Fa start_sels
が有効で、
.Fa descs
が NULL の場合には、
.Fn i386_set_ldt
はその記述子を開放します (後でまた再割り当てできるようにします)。
.Pp
.Fa num_descs
が 0 で、
.Fa start_sels
が 0 で、
.Fa descs
が NULL の場合には特別な場合として、
.Fn i386_set_ldt
は全ての記述子を開放します。
.Sh 戻り値
正常に完了した場合、
.Fn i386_get_ldt
は現在 LDT 内にある記述子の数を返します。
.Fn i386_set_ldt
システムコールは最初のセレクタセットを返します。
記述子がカーネルによって割り当てられた場合には、その数が返されます。
そうでない場合は -1 が返され、エラーを示すためにグローバル変数
.Va errno
が設定されます。
.Sh エラー
.Fn i386_get_ldt
と
.Fn i386_set_ldt
システムコールは次の場合に失敗します:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EINVAL
.Fa start_sel
または
.Fa num_sels
について不適切な値が使用されました。
.It Bq Er EACCES
呼び出し側が保護機構を欺くかまたは障害を起こす記述子を使おうとしました。
.El
.Sh 関連項目
i386 Microprocessor Programmer's Reference Manual, Intel
.Sh 警告
これを使用してプロセスをまったくダメにすることができます。
