.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)killpg.2	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/2/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/compat-43/killpg.2,v 1.12 2002/12/19 09:40:21 ru Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd June 2, 1993
.Dt KILLPG 2
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm killpg
.Nd プロセスグループにシグナルを送信する
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.In sys/types.h
.In signal.h
.Ft int
.Fn killpg "pid_t pgrp" "int sig"
.Sh 解説
.Fn killpg
関数は、プロセスグループ
.Fa pgrp
にシグナル
.Fa sig
を送信します。
シグナルのリストについては
.Xr sigaction 2
を参照してください。
.Fa pgrp
が 0 の場合、
.Fn killpg
は、送信側プロセスのプロセスグループにシグナルを送信します。
.Pp
送信側プロセスとプロセスグループのメンバが同じ実効ユーザ ID を持つか、
または送信側がスーパユーザである必要があります。
唯一の特殊なケースとして、継続シグナル SIGCONT は、
現在のプロセスの子孫であればどのプロセスにでも送信できます。
.Sh 戻り値
.Rv -std killpg
.Sh エラー
.Fn killpg
関数は、次の場合に処理に失敗し、シグナルは送信されません:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EINVAL
.Fa sig
引数が有効なシグナル番号ではありません。
.It Bq Er ESRCH
.Fa pgrp
で指定したプロセスグループ内にプロセスが見つかりません。
.It Bq Er ESRCH
プロセスグループとして 0 が指定されましたが、送信側プロセスに
プロセスグループがありません。
.It Bq Er EPERM
送信側プロセスがスーパユーザでなく、1 つ以上のターゲットプロセスの
実効ユーザ ID が送信側プロセスの実効ユーザ ID と異なっています。
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr getpgrp 2 ,
.Xr kill 2 ,
.Xr sigaction 2
.Sh 歴史
.Fn killpg
関数は
.Bx 4.0
ではじめて登場しました。
