.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)lseek.2	8.3 (Berkeley) 4/19/94
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/sys/lseek.2,v 1.21 2004/07/02 23:52:13 ru Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd April 19, 1994
.Dt LSEEK 2
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm lseek
.Nd 読取り / 書込みファイルオフセット位置を変更する
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.In unistd.h
.Ft off_t
.Fn lseek "int fildes" "off_t offset" "int whence"
.Sh 解説
.Fn lseek
システムコールは、ディレクティブ
.Fa whence
に従ってファイル記述子
.Fa fildes
のオフセットを引数
.Fa offset
に移動します。
引数
.Fa fildes
はオープンファイル記述子でなければなりません。
.Fn lseek
システムコールは、次のようにファイル記述子
.Fa fildes
に対応するファイル位置ポインタを移動します:
.Bl -item -offset indent
.It
.Fa whence
が
.Dv SEEK_SET
の場合、オフセットは
.Fa offset
バイトに設定されます。
.It
.Fa whence
が
.Dv SEEK_CUR
の場合、オフセットは現在の位置に
.Fa offset
バイトを加算したものに設定されます。
.It
.Fa whence
が
.Dv SEEK_END
の場合、オフセットはファイルのサイズに
.Fa offset
バイトを加算したものになります。
.El
.Pp
.Fn lseek
システムコールによって、ファイルオフセットをファイルの既存のファイルの
終り (EOF) を越えるところに設定できます。
後にデータがこの点に書き込まれると、
それ以後のギャップ内のデータに対する読取りは
(データが実際にギャップ内に書き込まれるまで) データとして 0 を返します。
.Pp
シークできないデバイスもあります。
そのようなデバイスに対応するポインタの値は未定義になります。
.Sh 戻り値
処理が正常に完了すると
.Fn lseek
は、ファイルの先頭から測定した結果のオフセット位置をバイト単位で返します。
そうでない場合は -1 が返され、エラーを示すために
.Va errno
が設定されます。
.Sh エラー
.Fn lseek
システムコールは次の場合に処理を失敗し、ファイル位置ポインタは変更されません:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EBADF
.Fa fildes
引数がオープンファイル記述子ではありません。
.It Bq Er EINVAL
.Fa whence
引数が正しい値ではないか、計算結果のファイルオフセットが
キャラクタ型ではない特殊ファイルに使う負の値となりました。
.It Bq Er EOVERFLOW
計算結果のファイルオフセットが、
.Fa off_t
型のオブジェクトでは正しく表現できない値となりました。
.It Bq Er ESPIPE
.Fa fildes
引数はパイプ、ソケット、または FIFO と対応づけられています。
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr dup 2 ,
.Xr open 2
.Sh バグ
このドキュメントの
.Fa whence
の使用法は正しくない英語ですが、歴史的な理由で維持されています。
.Sh 規格
.Fn lseek
システムコールは
.St -p1003.1-90
に適合しています。
.Sh 歴史
.Fn lseek
関数は
.At v7
で登場しました。
