.\" Copyright (c) 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)mincore.2	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/9/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/sys/mincore.2,v 1.24 2003/09/08 19:57:16 ru Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd January 17, 2003
.Dt MINCORE 2
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm mincore
.Nd メモリページの常駐の決定
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.In sys/mman.h
.Ft int
.Fn mincore "const void *addr" "size_t len" "char *vec"
.Sh 解説
.Fn mincore
システムコールは、
.Fa addr
で始まり
.Fa len
バイト続く領域の中の個々のページが常駐しているかどうかを、決定します。
.\"開始アドレス
.\".Fa addr
.\"は、はじめに複数のページサイズに切り捨てられます
.\".Xr ( getpagesize 3
.\"参照)。
.\"終了アドレス
.\".Fa addr No + Fa len
.\"は、複数のページサイズに切り上げられます。
その状態はページあたり 1 文字の
.Fa vec
配列の中に返されます。
個々の文字は、そのページが常駐していなければ 0 または、以下の
.In ( sys/mman.h
で定義されている) フラグの組み合わせです:
.Bl -tag -width ".Dv MINCORE_REFERENCED_OTHER"
.It Dv MINCORE_INCORE
ページはコア内にあります (常駐)。
.It Dv MINCORE_REFERENCED
ページは我々に参照されました。
.It Dv MINCORE_MODIFIED
ページは我々に変更されました。
.It Dv MINCORE_REFERENCED_OTHER
ページは参照されました。
.It Dv MINCORE_MODIFIED_OTHER
ページは変更されました。
.El
.Pp
.Fn mincore
によって返される情報は、このシステムコールが戻る時間のために
古くなっているかもしれません。
あるページが常駐することを保証する唯一の方法は、そのページを
.Xr mlock 2
システムコールでメモリにロックすることです。
.Sh 戻り値
.Rv -std mincore
.Sh エラー
.Fn mincore
システムコールは次の場合に失敗します:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EINVAL
.Fa addr
引数と
.Fa len
引数によって指定された仮想アドレス範囲が有効ではありません。
.It Bq Er EFAULT
.Fa vec
引数が正しくないアドレスを指しています。
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr madvise 2 ,
.Xr mlock 2 ,
.Xr mprotect 2 ,
.Xr msync 2 ,
.Xr munmap 2 ,
.Xr getpagesize 3
.Sh 歴史
.Fn mincore
システムコールは
.Bx 4.4
ではじめて登場しました。
