.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)mkfifo.2	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/sys/mkfifo.2,v 1.17 2002/12/19 09:40:25 ru Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd June 4, 1993
.Dt MKFIFO 2
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm mkfifo
.Nd fifo ファイルを作成する
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.In sys/types.h
.In sys/stat.h
.Ft int
.Fn mkfifo "const char *path" "mode_t mode"
.Sh 解説
.Fn mkfifo
システムコールは、
.Fa path
という名前の新しい fifo ファイルを作成します。
アクセス許可は
.Fa mode
によって指定され、呼び出しプロセスの
.Xr umask 2
の制約を受けます。
.Pp
fifo の所有者 ID は、プロセスの実効ユーザ ID に設定されます。
fifo のグループ ID は、それが作成される親ディレクトリの ID に設定されます。
.Sh 戻り値
.Rv -std mkfifo
.Sh エラー
.Fn mkfifo
システムコールは、次の場合に処理を失敗し、fifo は作成されません:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er ENOTSUP
カーネルが fifo をサポートするように構成されていません。
.It Bq Er ENOTDIR
パスの構成要素中にディレクトリ以外のものが含まれています。
.It Bq Er ENAMETOOLONG
パス名の構成要素が 255 文字を越えているか、
またはパス名全体が 1023 文字を越えています。
.It Bq Er ENOENT
パスの構成要素が存在しません。
.It Bq Er EACCES
指定されたパスには、検索が許可されていないディレクトリが含まれています。
.It Bq Er ELOOP
パス名を変換するときに検出されたシンボリックリンクが多すぎます。
.It Bq Er EROFS
指定されたファイルは読取り専用ファイルシステム上にあります。
.It Bq Er EEXIST
指定のファイルがすでに存在します。
.It Bq Er ENOSPC
新しい fifo 用のエントリを配置するディレクトリが拡張できません。
ディレクトリが入っているファイルシステムに空き容量が残っていません。
.It Bq Er ENOSPC
fifo を作成するファイルシステム上に未使用の inode がありません。
.It Bq Er EDQUOT
新しい fifo 用のエントリを配置するディレクトリが拡張できません。
ディレクトリが入っているファイルシステム上のディスクブロックのユーザの
クォータが枯渇しました。
.It Bq Er EDQUOT
fifo を作成中のファイルシステム上のユーザの inode のクォータが
枯渇しました。
.It Bq Er EIO
ディレクトリエントリの作成中、あるいは inode を割り当て中に
.Tn I/O
(入出力) エラーが発生しました。
.It Bq Er EIO
ファイルシステムに読み書きしている間に
.Tn I/O
(入出力) エラーが発生しました。
.It Bq Er EFAULT
.Fa path
引数が、プロセスに割り当てられたアドレス空間の範囲外を指しています。
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr chmod 2 ,
.Xr mknod 2 ,
.Xr stat 2 ,
.Xr umask 2
.Sh 規格
.Fn mkfifo
システムコールは
.St -p1003.1-90
に適合しています。
