.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)mknod.2	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/sys/mknod.2,v 1.9.2.1 2000/04/22 17:06:59 phantom Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd June 4, 1993
.Dt MKNOD 2
.Os BSD 4
.Sh 名称
.Nm mknod
.Nd 特殊なファイルノードを作成する
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.Fd #include <unistd.h>
.Ft int
.Fn mknod "const char *path" "mode_t mode" "dev_t dev"
.Sh 解説
ファイルシステムノード
.Fa path
が、
.Fa mode
で指定されたファイルタイプとアクセス許可で
作成されます。アクセス許可はプロセスの umask 値による修正を受けます。
.Pp
.Fa mode
がブロックまたはキャラクタ型特殊ファイルを示す場合、
.Fa dev
はシステム上の特定のデバイスを示す
構成に依存する指示です。そうでない場合
.Fa dev
は無視されます。
.Pp
.Fn mknod
にはスーパユーザ権限が必要です。
.Sh 戻り値
処理が正常に完了すると値 0 が返されます。そうでない場合は
値 -1 が返され、
エラーを示すために
.Va errno
が設定されます。
.Sh エラー
.Fn mknod
は次の場合に処理に失敗し、ファイルは作成されません。
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er ENOTDIR
パスの構成要素中にディレクトリ以外のものが含まれています。
.It Bq Er ENAMETOOLONG
パス名の構成要素が 255 文字を越えているか、
またはパス名全体が 1023 文字を越えています。
.It Bq Er ENOENT
パスの構成要素が存在しません。
.It Bq Er EACCES
指定されたパスには、検索が許可されていないディレクトリが含まれています。
.It Bq Er ELOOP
パス名を変換するときに検出されたシンボリックリンクが多すぎます。
.It Bq Er EPERM
プロセスの実効ユーザ ID がスーパユーザではありません。
.It Bq Er EIO
ディレクトリエントリの作成中、あるいは i ノードを割り当て中に
入出力エラーが発生しました。
.It Bq Er ENOSPC
新しいノード用のエントリを配置するディレクトリが拡張できません。
ディレクトリが入っているファイルシステム上に空き容量が残っていません。
.It Bq Er ENOSPC
ノードを作成するファイルシステム上に未使用の i ノードがありません。
.It Bq Er EDQUOT
新しいノードのエントリを配置するディレクトリが拡張できません。
ディレクトリが入っているファイルシステム上のディスクブロックのユーザの
クォータが枯渇しました。
.It Bq Er EDQUOT
ノードを作成中のファイルシステム上の i ノードのユーザのクォータが
枯渇しました。
.It Bq Er EROFS
指定されたファイルは読取り専用ファイルシステム上にあります。
.It Bq Er EEXIST
指定のファイルがすでに存在しています。
.It Bq Er EFAULT
.Fa path
は、プロセスに割り当てられたアドレス空間の範囲外を指しています。
.It Bq Er EINVAL
ブロックまたはキャラクタ型特殊ファイル (または
.Em whiteout )
以外の作成は行われません。
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr chmod 2 ,
.Xr mkfifo 2 ,
.Xr stat 2 ,
.Xr umask 2
.Sh 歴史
.Fn mknod
関数は
.At v6
で登場しました。
