.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1999 Chris Costello
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/sys/modstat.2,v 1.1.2.2 2000/12/29 14:44:53 ru Exp %
.\"
.Dd September 28, 2000
.Dt MODSTAT 2
.Os FreeBSD
.Sh 名称
.Nm kldstat
.Nd カーネルモジュールの状態を取得
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.Fd #include <sys/param.h>
.Fd #include <sys/module.h>
.Ft int
.Fn modstat "int modid" "struct module_stat *stat"
.Sh 解説
.Fn modstat
は
.Fa modid
で参照されているカーネルモジュールに関する情報を
.Fa stat
に格納します。
.Bd -literal
struct module_stat {
	int         version;        /* set to sizeof(module_stat) */
	char        name[MAXPATHLEN];
	int         refs;
	int         id;
	modspecific_t data;
};
typedef union modspecific {
	int         intval;
	u_int       u_intval;
	long        longval;
	u_long      u_longval;
} modspecific_t;
.Ed
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width XXXaddress
.It version
このフィールドには、
.Fn modstat
自体ではなく
.Fn modstat
を呼び出したコードによって、上記の構造体のサイズが設定されます。
.It name
.Fa modid
で参照されているモジュールの名前。
.It refs
.Fa modid
で参照されているモジュールの数。
.It id
.Fa modid
で指定されているモジュールのid。
.It data
モジュール特有のデータ。
.El
.Sh 戻り値
.Fn modstat
はいつも 0 を返すように見えますが…
.Sh エラー
以下のようなエラーが発生しない限り、
.Fa modid
によって参照されているモジュールに関する情報が
.Fa stat
が指している構造体に代入されます:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er ENOENT
モジュールが見つかりません (おそらくロードされていません)。
.It Bq Er EINVAL
.Fa version
フィールドで指定されているバージョンが適切ではありません。
適切なバージョンを
.Fa version
フィールドで指定しているにも関わらずこのエラーが起こるときは、
OS全体か、カーネルまたはプログラム自身を作り直す必要があるかもしれません。
.It Bq Er EFAULT
.Fn copyout
の中で、ひとつまたは複数あるいはすべてのフィールドを
.Fa stat
にコピー中に問題が発生しました。
.El
.Sh 参照
.Xr kldfind 2 ,
.Xr kldfirstmod 2 ,
.Xr kldload 2 ,
.Xr kldnext 2 ,
.Xr kldunload 2 ,
.Xr modnext 2 ,
.Xr modfind 2 ,
.Xr modfnext 2 ,
.Xr kld 4 ,
.Xr kldstat 8
.Sh 歴史
.Nm kld
インタフェースは
.Fx 3.0
ではじめて登場しました。
