.\" Copyright (c) 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)munmap.2	8.3 (Berkeley) 5/27/94
.\"   %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/sys/munmap.2,v 1.10.2.2 2000/12/29 14:44:53 ru Exp %
.\"
.Dd May 27, 1994
.Dt MUNMAP 2
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm munmap
.Nd マッピングを除去する
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.Fd #include <sys/types.h>
.Fd #include <sys/mman.h>
.Ft int
.Fn munmap "void *addr" "size_t len"
.Sh 解説
.Fn munmap
システムコールは指定アドレス範囲についてマッピングを除去します。
これにより、以降のこのアドレス範囲内への参照は
無効なメモリ参照を引き起こすようになります。
.Sh 戻り値
処理が正常に完了すると
.Fn munmap
は 0 を返します。そうでない場合は値 -1 が返され、
エラーを示すために
.Va errno
が設定されます。
.Sh エラー
.Fn munmap
は次の場合に失敗します。
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EINVAL
.Fa addr
パラメータがページ境界に整列していなかったか、
.Fa len
パラメータが負であったか、
またはアンマップする領域の一部が
プロセスにとって有効な範囲外にあります。
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr madvise 2 ,
.Xr mincore 2 ,
.Xr mprotect 2 ,
.Xr msync 2 ,
.Xr munmap 2 ,
.Xr getpagesize 3
.Sh 歴史
.Fn munmap
関数は
.Bx 4.4
ではじめて登場しました。
