.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)pipe.2	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/sys/pipe.2,v 1.7.2.4 1999/08/29 14:49:16 peter Exp %
.\"
.Dd June 4, 1993
.Dt PIPE 2
.Os BSD 4
.Sh 名称
.Nm pipe
.Nd プロセス間通信について記述子のペアを作成する
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.Fd #include <unistd.h>
.Ft int
.Fn pipe "int *fildes"
.Sh 解説
.Fn pipe
関数は
双方向のデータフローを可能とするオブジェクトである
.Em pipe
を作成し、ペアのファイル記述子を割り当てます。
.Pp
慣習により 1 番めの記述子が通常、パイプの
.Em read end
として使用され、2 番めの記述子が通常、
.Em write end
なので、
.Fa fildes[1]
に書込まれたデータが
.Fa fildes[0]
に現れます (すなわち、
.Fa fildes[0]
から読取れます)。
これによって 1 つのプログラムの出力が別のプログラムに送信できます。
ソースの標準出力はパイプの書込み終端であるようにセットアップされ、
シンクの標準入力はパイプの読取り終端であるようにセットアップされます。
パイプ自体は、すべての対応する記述子が閉じるまで持続します。
.Pp
1 端が閉じているパイプは
.Em widowed
(相手を失った) と見なされます。このようなパイプに書込みをすると、
書込みプロセスは
.Dv SIGPIPE
信号を受信します。読取り側にファイルの終了を伝える方法は、
書込み側のパイプを閉じてしまうしかありません。
読取り側がバッファに入っているデータを使用した後、相手を失ったパイプを
読取ると 0 カウントが返されます。
.Pp
実装したパイプのこの双方向という性質は古いシステムには移植できないので、
一方向にパイプを使用する
ときは、従来の方法で端点を使用する慣習を使用することをお勧めします。
.Sh 戻り値
パイプの作成が正常に完了すると、0 を返します。そうでない場合は -1 が返され、
エラーを示すために変数
.Va errno
が設定されます。
.Sh エラー
.Fn pipe
呼び出しは次の場合に失敗します。
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EMFILE
アクティブな記述子が多すぎます。
.It Bq Er ENFILE
システムファイルテーブルが満杯です。
.It Bq Er EFAULT
.Fa fildes
バッファがプロセスのアドレス空間の不正な領域にあります。
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr sh 1 ,
.Xr fork 2 ,
.Xr read 2 ,
.Xr socketpair 2 ,
.Xr write 2
.Sh 歴史
.Fn pipe
関数は
.At v3
で登場しました。
.Pp
双方向パイプははじめて
.At V.4
で使用されました。
