.\" Copyright (c) 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" Donn Seeley of BSDI.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)profil.2	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/sys/profil.2,v 1.7.2.1 1999/08/29 14:49:17 peter Exp %
.\"
.Dd June 4, 1993
.Dt PROFIL 2
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm profil
.Nd プロセスのプロファイルを制御する
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.Fd #include <unistd.h>
.Ft int
.Fn profil "char *samples" "size_t size" "vm_offset_t offset" "int scale"
.Sh 解説
.Fn profil
関数は、現在のプロセスのカウンタプロファイルを有効化または無効化します。
プロファイルが有効な場合、プロファイルクロックチックごとに、カーネルは
.Fa samples
バッファ内の適切なカウントを更新します。プロファイルクロックの周波数は、
プロファイル出力ファイル内のヘッダ内に記録されます。
.Pp
バッファ
.Fa samples
には
.Fa size
バイトが含まれており、一連の 16 ビットの塊に分割されます。
各塊は、プロファイルが有効時にプロファイルクロックチックが
発生したときに、
プログラムカウンタがプロセス内の特別なアドレス範囲内にあった回数を
カウントします。
指定のプログラムカウンタアドレスについて、対応する塊の数が
次の関係によって与えられます。
.Bd -literal -offset indent
[(pc - offset) / 2] * scale / 65536
.Ed
.Pp
.Fa offset
パラメータは、カーネルがプログラムカウンタサンプルを
取る最も低いアドレスです。
.Fa scale
パラメータの範囲は 1 から 65536 であり、
塊の広がりを変更するのに使用できます。
スケール 65536 は、各塊をアドレス範囲の 2 バイトに割り当てます。
スケール 32768 は 4 バイト、
16384 は 8 バイト、後は同様です。中間の値はおおよそ中間の範囲を与えます。
.Fa scale
値が 0 の場合、
プロファイルは無効になります。
.Sh 戻り値
値
.Fa scale
が 0 ではなく、バッファ
.Fa samples
に不正なアドレスが入っている場合、
.Fn profil
は -1 を返し、プロファイルは終了して
.Va errno
が設定されます。そうでない場合、
.Fn profil
は 0 を返します。
.Sh ファイル
.Bl -tag -width /usr/lib/gcrt0.o -compact
.It Pa /usr/lib/gcrt0.o
プロファイリング用の C ランタイムスタートアップファイル
.It Pa gmon.out
プロファイル出力ファイルの従来の名前
.El
.Sh エラー
次のエラーが報告される可能性があります。
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EFAULT
バッファ
.Fa samples
に無効なアドレスが入っています。
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr gprof 1
.Sh 歴史
.Fn profil
関数は
.At v7
で登場しました。
.Sh バグ
このルーチンの名前は
.Fn profile
にすべきです。
.Pp
.Fa samples
引数は本当はベクトル
.Fa "unsigned short"
のベクトルである必要があります。
.Pp
gmon.out ファイルの形式は記述されていません。
