.\" Copyright (c) 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" Berkeley Software Design, Inc.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)revoke.2	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\"
.Dd June 4, 1993
.Dt REVOKE 2
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm revoke
.Nd ファイルアクセスを無効にする
.Sh 書式
.Fd #include <unistd.h>
.Ft int
.Fn revoke "const char *path"
.Sh 解説
.Fn revoke
関数は、
.Fa path
によって指定されたファイルについて、システム内の現在の開いているすべての
ファイル記述子を無効にします。
そのような記述子についての後続の操作は、
解除されたキャラクタ型デバイスファイルからの
.Fn read
がカウント 0 (ファイルの終了) を返して、後続する
.Fn close
呼び出しが成功する場合を例外として、
処理を失敗します。
ただし、ファイルが開かれたデバイスについての特殊ファイルである場合、
デバイスを閉じる関数は、ファイルへのすべての開かれていた参照が
閉じられたものであったかのように呼び出されます。
.Pp
ファイルへのアクセスはその所有者または
スーパユーザによってだけ無効にされます。
.Fn revoke
関数は現時点ではブロック型およびキャラクタ型特殊ファイルについてだけ
サポートされています。
これは通常、端末の前の使用者によるアクセスを防止し、
新しいログインセッション用に端末デバイスを準備
するのに使用されます。
.Sh 戻り値
値 0 は呼び出しが正常に完了したことを示します。
戻り値 -1 はエラーが起こったことを示し、理由を示すために
.Va errno
が設定されます。
.Sh エラー
次の場合を除いて、指定ファイルへのアクセスは無効にされます。
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er ENOTDIR
パスの構成要素中にディレクトリ以外のものが含まれています。
.It Bq Er ENAMETOOLONG
パス名の構成要素が 255 文字を越えているか、
またはパス名全体が 1024 文字を越えています。
.It Bq Er ENOENT
指定されたファイルまたはパス名の構成要素が存在しません。
.It Bq Er EACCES
前置パス名の構成要素について検索許可が拒否されています。
.It Bq Er ELOOP
パス名を変換するときに検出されたシンボリックリンクが多すぎます。
.It Bq Er EFAULT
.Fa path
は、プロセスに割り当てられたアドレス空間の範囲外を指しています。
.It Bq Er EINVAL
システムは、指定されたファイルについて
.Fn revoke
操作をサポートしません。
.It Bq Er EPERM
呼び出し側がファイルの所有者でもスーパユーザでもありません。
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr close 2
.Sh 歴史
.Fn revoke
関数は
.Bx 4.3 Reno
で登場しました。
