.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)rmdir.2	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/sys/rmdir.2,v 1.5.2.3 2000/12/29 14:44:53 ru Exp %
.\"
.Dd June 4, 1993
.Dt RMDIR 2
.Os BSD 4.2
.Sh 名称
.Nm rmdir
.Nd ディレクトリファイルを削除する
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.Fd #include <unistd.h>
.Ft int
.Fn rmdir "const char *path"
.Sh 解説
.Fn rmdir
は、名前が
.Fa path
で指定されるディレクトリファイルを削除します。
ディレクトリには
.Ql .\&
と
.Ql \&..
以外のエントリがあってはなりません。
.Sh 戻り値
削除が正常に完了すると 0 が返されます。そうでない場合は -1 が返され、
グローバル変数
.Va errno
にエラーコードが保存されます。
.Sh エラー
次の場合を除いて、指定されたファイルが削除されます。
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er ENOTDIR
パスの構成要素中にディレクトリ以外のものが含まれています。
.It Bq Er ENAMETOOLONG
パス名の構成要素が 255 文字を越えているか、
またはパス名全体が 1023 文字を越えています。
.It Bq Er ENOENT
指定されたディレクトリが存在しません。
.It Bq Er ELOOP
パス名を変換するときに検出されたシンボリックリンクが多すぎます。
.It Bq Er ENOTEMPTY
指定されたディレクトリには
.Ql .\&
と
.Ql ..\&
以外のファイルが含まれています。
.It Bq Er EACCES
指定されたパスには、検索が許可されていないディレクトリが含まれています。
.It Bq Er EACCES
削除するリンクが入っているディレクトリの書込みが許可されていません。
.It Bq Er EPERM
削除するディレクトリが入っているディレクトリは
スティッキービットが設定されており、
削除したいディレクトリを含んでいるディレクトリ
または削除するディレクトリの
どちらかあるいは両方の所有者が実効ユーザ ID とは異なっています。
.It Bq Er EBUSY
削除しようとしているディレクトリは、
ファイルシステムがマウントされているマウントポイントです。
.It Bq Er EIO
ディレクトリエントリを削除している間、
または i ノードの割り当てを解除している間に入出力エラーが発生しました。
.It Bq Er EROFS
削除するディレクトリエントリは読取り専用ファイルシステム上にあります。
.It Bq Er EFAULT
.Fa path
は、プロセスに割り当てられたアドレス空間の範囲外を指しています。
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr mkdir 2 ,
.Xr unlink 2
.Sh 歴史
.Fn rmdir
関数は
.Bx 4.2
で登場しました。
