.\" Copyright (c) 1994, Henrik Vestergaard Draboel
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\" 	This product includes software developed by Henrik Vestergaard Draboel.
.\" 4. The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote products
.\"    derived from this software without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" 
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/sys/rtprio.2,v 1.13.2.5 2000/12/29 14:44:53 ru Exp %
.\"
.Dd July 23, 1994
.Dt RTPRIO 2
.Os FreeBSD
.Sh 名称
.Nm rtprio
.Nd ユーティリティやプロセスのリアルタイムまたはアイドル優先順位を取得と修正
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.Fd #include <sys/types.h>
.Fd #include <sys/rtprio.h>
.Ft int 
.Fn rtprio "int function" "pid_t pid" "struct rtprio *rtp"
.Sh 解説
.Fn rtprio
を使用して、
プロセスのリアルタイム/アイドル優先順位を取得または変更します。
.Pp
.Fa function
で実行する操作を指定します。現在の優先順位を取得するには
RTP_LOOKUP、優先順位を設定するには RTP_SET です。
.Fa pid
は、対象のプロセスを指定します。現在のプロセスを指定するには 0 を使います。
.Pp
.Fa *rtp
は、優先順位と優先順位のタイプを指定するのに使用する struct rtprio を指す
ポインタです。この構造体は次の型です。
.Bd -literal
struct rtprio {
	u_short	type;
	u_short prio;
};
.Ed
.Pp
.Nm type
の値は、リアルタイム優先順位については RTP_PRIO_REALTIME、
通常の優先順位については RTP_PRIO_NORMAL、
アイドル優先順位については RTP_PRIO_IDLE です。
.Nm prio
によって指定する優先順位は、0 から
.Dv RTP_PRIO_MAX (通常は 31)
の範囲になります。0 が指定可能な最高の優先順位です。
.Pp
リアルタイム優先順位とアイドル優先順位は、
fork() と exec() を通じて継承されます。
.Pp
リアルタイムプロセスは、それ以上の優先順位をもつプロセス、
または割り込みによってだけ優先権を取得できます。
アイドル優先順位のプロセスは、
他のリアルタイムまたは通常の優先順位プロセスが
実行可能でないときにだけ実行されます。
優先順位の高いリアルまたはアイドルのプロセスは
優先順位の低いリアルまたはアイドルのプロセスから優先権を取得します。
優先順位が等しいリアルまたはアイドルの
プロセスはラウンドロビン式で実行されます。
.Sh 戻り値
.Fn rtprio
は正常に完了すると 0 を返し、エラーの場合は -1 を返します。
エラーを示すためにグローバル変数
.Va errno
が設定されます。
.Sh エラー
.Fn rtprio
は次の場合に処理を失敗します。
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EINVAL
指定された
.Fa prio
が範囲外でした。
.It Bq Er EPERM
呼び出しプロセスがリアルタイム優先順位を設定できません。
スーパユーザだけが任意のプロセスのリアル優先順位を変更することができます。
非スーパユーザは現在のプロセスのアイドル優先順位を変更できるだけです。
.It Bq Er ESRCH
指定のプロセスが見つかりませんでした。
.El
.Sh 作者
.An -nosplit
元の作者は
.An Henrik Vestergaard Draboel Aq hvd@terry.ping.dk
です。
.Fx
でのこの実装は主に David Greenman
によって書き直されました。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr nice 1 ,
.Xr ps 1 ,
.Xr rtprio 1 ,
.Xr setpriority 2 ,
.Xr nice 3 ,
.Xr renice 8
