.\" Copyright (c) 1998 HD Associates, Inc.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/sys/sched_get_priority_max.2,v 1.19 2004/07/02 23:52:13 ru Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd March 12, 1998
.Dt SCHED_GET_PRIORITY_MAX 2
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm sched_get_priority_max ,
.Nm sched_get_priority_min ,
.Nm sched_rr_get_interval
.Nd スケジュールパラメータの上限 / 下限を取得する
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.In sched.h
.Ft int
.Fn sched_get_priority_max "int policy"
.Ft int
.Fn sched_get_priority_min "int policy"
.Ft int
.Fn sched_rr_get_interval "pid_t pid" "struct timespec *interval"
.Sh 解説
.Fn sched_get_priority_max
システムコールと
.Fn sched_get_priority_min
システムコールは、
.Fa policy
で指定されたスケジューリング方針について、
それぞれ該当する最大と最小を返します。
.Fn sched_rr_get_interval
システムコールは、
.Fa interval
引数によって参照される
.Fa timespec
構造体を、
.Fa pid
で指定されるプロセスについて
現在の実行時間制限 (すなわち、時間量) が含まれるように更新します。
.Fa pid
が 0 の場合、呼び出し元プロセスに関する現在の実行時間制限が返されます。
.Pp
.Fa policy
の値は
.Fa <sched.h>
で定義されたスケジュール方針の 1 つにする必要があります:
.Bl -tag -width [SCHED_OTHER]
.It Bq Er SCHED_FIFO
ラウンドロビンスケジュールなしの先入先出 (FIFO) 固定優先順位スケジュール。
.It Bq Er SCHED_OTHER
標準のタイムシェアリングスケジューラ。
.It Bq Er SCHED_RR
同じ優先順位のプロセス間でのラウンドロビンスケジューリング。
.El
.Sh 戻り値
.Fn sched_get_priority_max
システムコールと
.Fn sched_get_priority_min
システムコールは、正常に完了するとそれぞれ該当する最大値または最小値を返します。
そうでない場合、どちらの関数も -1 が返され、エラーを示すために
.Fa errno
が設定されます。
.Pp
.Rv -std sched_rr_get_interval
.Sh エラー
処理を失敗すると、
.Va errno
は対応する値に設定されます:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EINVAL
.Fa policy
引数の値が定義されているスケジュール方針ではありません。
.It Bq Er ENOSYS
.Fn sched_get_priority_max
システムコール、
.Fn sched_get_priority_min
システムコール、そして
.Fn sched_rr_get_interval
システムコールは、この実装ではサポートされていません。
.It Bq Er ESRCH
.Fa pid
で指定されるプロセスに対応するプロセスが見つかりません。
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr sched_getparam 2 ,
.Xr sched_getscheduler 2 ,
.Xr sched_setparam 2 ,
.Xr sched_setscheduler 2
.Sh 規格
.Fn sched_get_priority_max
システムコール、
.Fn sched_get_priority_min
システムコール、それから
.Fn sched_rr_get_interval
システムコールは
.St -p1003.1b-93
に適合しています。
