.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/sys/sched_yield.2,v 1.1.2.1 1999/08/29 14:49:21 peter Exp %
.\" Copyright (c) 1998 HD Associates, Inc.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd Mar 12, 1998
.Dt SCHED_YIELD 2
.Os BSD 4
.Sh 名称
.Nm sched_yield
.Nd プロセッサを明け渡す
.Sh 書式
.Fd #include <sched.h>
.Ft int
.Fn sched_yield void
.Sh 解説
.Fn sched_yield
関数は、実行中のプロセスが再びプロセスリストの先頭になるまで、
プロセッサを放棄させます。
引数は指定しません。
.Sh 戻り値
.Fn sched_yield
関数は、正常に完了すると 0 を返します。そうでない場合は値 -1 を返して、
エラーを示すために
.Va errno
を設定します。
.Sh エラー
処理に失敗すると、
.Va errno
に対応する値を設定します。
.Bl -tag -width [EFAULT]
.It Bq Er ENOSYS
システムがこの機能をサポートするように構成されていません。
.Sh 規格
.Fn sched_yield
関数は
.St -p1003.1b-93
に準拠しています。
