.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1995 David Hovemeyer <daveho@infocom.com>
.\"
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE DEVELOPERS ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE DEVELOPERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/sys/semget.2,v 1.7.2.2 2000/12/29 14:44:53 ru Exp %
.\"
.Dd September 12, 1995
.Dt SEMGET 2
.Os FreeBSD
.Sh 名称
.Nm semget
.Nd セマフォ ID を取得する
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.Fd #include <sys/types.h>
.Fd #include <sys/ipc.h>
.Fd #include <sys/sem.h>
.Ft int
.Fn semget "key_t key" "int nsems" "int flag"
.Sh 解説
.Fa key
と
.Fa flag
の値に基づき、
.Fn semget
は新たに作成された、あるいは
以前から存在するセマフォ集合の識別子を返します。
.\"
.\" This is copied verbatim from the shmget manpage.  Perhaps
.\" it should go in a common manpage, such as .Xr ipc 2
.\"
キーはファイル名に類似しています。
キーは
IPC オブジェクトに名前を付けるハンドルを提供します。
キーを指定する方法は
3 つあります。
.Bl -bullet
.It
IPC_PRIVATE
を指定できます。この場合、新しい
IPC オブジェクトが作成されます。
.It
整数定数を指定できます。
.Fa key
に対応する
IPC オブジェクトが指定されておらず、しかも
IPC_CREAT
ビットを
.Fa flag
引数で設定している場合、新しい
IPC オブジェクトが作成されます。
.It
.Fn ftok
を使用して、パス名からキーを生成できます。
.Xr ftok 3
を参照してください。
.El
.\"
.\" Likewise for this section, except SHM_* becomes SEM_*.
.\"
.Pp
新しく作成される
IPC オブジェクトのモードは、次の定数の論理和
(
.Em OR
) を
.Fa flag
パラメータに設定することで決定されます。
.Bl -tag -width XSEM_WXX6XXX
.It Dv SEM_R
ユーザ用の読取りアクセス
.It Dv SEM_A
ユーザ用の書換えアクセス
.It Dv (SEM_R>>3)
グループ用の読取りアクセス
.It Dv (SEM_A>>3)
グループ用の書換えアクセス
.It Dv (SEM_R>>6)
その他用の読取りアクセス
.It Dv (SEM_A>>6)
その他用の書換えアクセス
.El
.Pp
新しいセマフォ集合が作成されている場合、
.Fa nsems
を使用して、集合の中に入れる必要のある
セマフォの数を示します。そうでない場合、
.Fa nsems
を
0 として指定できます。
.Sh 戻り値
.Fn semget
は、正常に完了するとセマフォ集合の識別子を返します。
そうでない場合は、
-1 を返し、エラーを示すように
.Va errno
を設定します。
.Sh エラー
.Fn semget
は次の場合に処理に失敗します。
.Bl -tag -width Er
.\" ipcperm could fail (we're opening to read and write, as it were)
.It Bq Er EACCES
アクセスパーミッション障害。
.\"
.\" sysv_sem.c is quite explicit about these, so I'm pretty sure
.\" this is accurate
.\"
.It Bq Er EEXIST
IPC_CREAT
および
IPC_EXCL
が指定されているのに、
.Fa key
に対応するセマフォ集合が既に存在します。
.It Bq Er EINVAL
要求されたセマフォの数が、
システムが集合単位で課している最大値を超過しています。
.It Bq Er ENOSPC
利用可能なセマフォが不足しています。
.It Bq Er ENOSPC
カーネルが
.Fa "struct semid_ds"
を割当てできませんでした。
.It Bq Er ENOENT
.Fa key
に対応するセマフォ集合が見つからず、その際に
IPC_CREAT
が指定されていませんでした。
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr semctl 2 ,
.Xr semop 2 ,
.Xr ftok 3
