.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1991, 1993, 1994
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)setgroups.2	8.2 (Berkeley) 4/16/94
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/sys/setgroups.2,v 1.4.2.1 2000/04/22 17:07:05 phantom Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd April 16, 1994
.Dt SETGROUPS 2
.Os BSD 4.2
.Sh 名称
.Nm setgroups
.Nd グループアクセスリストを設定する
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.Fd #include <sys/param.h>
.Fd #include <unistd.h>
.Ft int
.Fn setgroups "int ngroups" "const gid_t *gidset"
.Sh 解説
.Fn setgroups
は、配列
.Fa gidset
に従って、現在のユーザプロセスのグループアクセスリストを設定します。
パラメータ
.Fa ngroups
は、配列内のエントリの数を示し、
.Ao Pa sys/param.h Ac
内に定義されている値
.Dv NGROUPS
を超えてはいけません。
.Pp
スーパユーザだけが新しいグループを設定できます。
.Sh 戻り値
正常に完了すると値 0 が返されます。エラーがあったときは -1 が返され、
エラーコードが
.Va errno
に保存されます。
.Sh エラー
.Fn setgroups
呼び出しは次の場合に処理に失敗します。
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EPERM
スーパユーザ以外のユーザによって呼び出されました。
.It Bq Er EFAULT
.Fa gidset
に指定されたアドレスは、
プロセスに割り当てられたアドレス空間の範囲外を指しています。
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr getgroups 2 ,
.Xr initgroups 3
.Sh 歴史
.Fn setgroups
関数呼び出しは
.Bx 4.2
で登場しました。
