.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)setpgid.2	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/sys/setpgid.2,v 1.14 2004/02/08 12:38:30 das Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd February 8, 2004
.Dt SETPGID 2
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm setpgid ,
.Nm setpgrp
.Nd プロセスグループを設定する
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.In unistd.h
.Ft int
.Fn setpgid "pid_t pid" "pid_t pgrp"
.Ft int
.Fn setpgrp "pid_t pid" "pid_t pgrp"
.Sh 解説
.Fn setpgid
システムコールは、指定されたプロセス
.Fa pid
のプロセスグループを指定された
.Ar pgrp
に設定します。
.Fa pid
が 0 の場合、呼び出しは現在のプロセスに適用されます。
.Pp
影響されるプロセスが実行したプロセスでない場合には、
それは実行したプロセスの子プロセスでなければならず、既に
.Xr exec 3
操作を実行していてはならず、両方のプロセスが同じセッション中に
なければなりません。
要求されたプロセスグループ ID は呼び出し側のセッション中に既に存在
していなければならないか、または目的のプロセス ID と同一でなければなりません。
.Sh 戻り値
.Rv -std setpgid
.Sh エラー
.Fn setpgid
システムコールは、次の場合に処理を失敗し、プロセスグループは変更されません:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EINVAL
要求されたプロセスグループ ID は正当ではありません。
.It Bq Er ESRCH
要求されたプロセスが存在しません。
.It Bq Er ESRCH
目的のプロセスが、呼び出したプロセスでも、呼び出したプロセスの
子プロセスでもありません。
.It Bq Er EACCES
要求されたプロセスが呼び出したプロセスの子プロセスですが、
.Xr exec 3
操作を既に行っています。
.It Bq Er EPERM
目的のプロセスがセッションリーダです。
.It Bq Er EPERM
要求されたプロセスグループ ID が呼び出し側のセッションの中に無く、
目的のプロセスのプロセス ID とも等しくありません。
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr getpgrp 2
.Sh 規格
.Fn setpgid
システムコールは
.St -p1003.1-90
に適合しています。
.Sh 互換性
.Fn setpgrp
システムコールは、
.Fn setpgid
と同一であり、
.Bx
の旧バージョンとの呼び出し規約互換のために保持されています。
