.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1991, 1993, 1994
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)setreuid.2	8.2 (Berkeley) 4/16/94
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/sys/setreuid.2,v 1.6.2.3 2001/03/06 16:46:06 ru Exp %
.\"
.Dd April 16, 1994
.Dt SETREUID 2
.Os BSD 4
.Sh 名称
.Nm setreuid
.Nd 実ユーザ ID と実効ユーザ ID を設定する
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.Fd #include <unistd.h>
.Ft int
.Fn setreuid "uid_t ruid" "uid_t euid"
.Sh 解説
現在のプロセスの実ユーザ ID と実効ユーザ ID が引数に従って
設定されます。
.Fa ruid
または
.Fa euid
が -1 の場合、現在の UID が指定されたことになります。特権のない
ユーザは、実ユーザ ID をその実効ユーザ ID に、または実効ユーザ ID を
その実ユーザ ID に変更できます。スーパユーザだけがその他の変更を行えます。
.Pp
.Fn setreuid
関数は set-user-ID プログラム内で実ユーザ ID と実効ユーザ ID を
スワップし、 set-user-ID の値を一時的に放棄するために使われてきました。
この目的は、現在では
.Fn seteuid
関数 (
.Xr setuid 2
を参照 ) を使用するとより良く達成できます。
.Pp
実ユーザ ID と実効ユーザ ID を同じ値に設定するときは、標準の
.Fn setuid
関数を使用するようにしてください。
.Sh 戻り値
.\".Rv -std setreuid
処理が正常に完了すると、値 0 が返されます。
そうでない場合は -1 が返され、エラーを示すために
.Va errno
が設定されます。
.Sh エラー
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EPERM
現在のプロセスがスーパユーザでなく、実効ユーザ ID を実ユーザ ID に
変更する以外の変更が指定されました。
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr getuid 2 ,
.Xr issetugid 2 ,
.Xr seteuid 2 ,
.Xr setuid 2
.Sh 歴史
.Fn setreuid
システムコールは
.Bx 4.2
で登場しました。
