.\" Copyright (c) 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)setsid.2	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/sys/setsid.2,v 1.10.2.1 2000/04/22 17:07:06 phantom Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd June 4, 1993
.Dt SETSID 2
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm setsid
.Nd セッションを作成しプロセスグループ ID を設定する
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.Fd #include <unistd.h>
.Ft pid_t
.Fn setsid void
.Sh 解説
.Fn setsid
関数は新しいセッションを作成します。呼び出しセッションは新しい
セッションのセッションリーダであり、新しいプロセスグループの
プロセスグループリーダで、制御端末はありません。
呼び出しプロセスは、セッションまたは
プロセスグループのどちらかにある唯一のプロセスです。
.Sh 戻り値
正常に完了すると、
.Fn setsid
関数は、新しいプロセスグループのプロセスグループ ID の値を返します。
これは呼び出しプロセスのプロセス ID と同じです。エラーが起きると、
.Fn setsid
は -1 を返し、エラーを示すためにグローバル変数
.Va errno
を設定します。
.Sh エラー
.Fn setsid
関数は次の場合に処理を失敗します。
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EPERM
呼び出しプロセスが既にプロセスグループリーダであるか、
または呼び出しプロセス以外のプロセスのプロセスグループ ID が
呼び出しプロセスのプロセス ID と一致します。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr setpgid 2 ,
.Xr tcgetpgrp 3 ,
.Xr tcsetpgrp 3
.Sh 規格
.Fn setsid
関数は
.St -p1003.1-90
仕様に準拠しています。
