.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)setuid.2	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/sys/setuid.2,v 1.23 2004/07/05 17:12:52 ru Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd June 4, 1993
.Dt SETUID 2
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm setuid ,
.Nm seteuid ,
.Nm setgid ,
.Nm setegid
.Nd ユーザ ID とグループ ID を設定する
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.In sys/types.h
.In unistd.h
.Ft int
.Fn setuid "uid_t uid"
.Ft int
.Fn seteuid "uid_t euid"
.Ft int
.Fn setgid "gid_t gid"
.Ft int
.Fn setegid "gid_t egid"
.Sh 解説
.Fn setuid
システムコールは、現在のプロセスの実ユーザ ID と実効ユーザ ID と
退避ユーザ ID を指定した値に設定します。
.\" Comment out next block for !_POSIX_SAVED_IDS
.\" The real user ID and the saved set-user-ID are changed only if the
.\" effective user ID is that of the super user.
.\" I.e.
.\" .Fn setuid
.\" system call is equal to
.\" .Fn seteuid
.\" system call if the effective user ID is not that of the super user.
.\" End of block
.Fn setuid
システムコールが許容されるのは、指定の ID がプロセスの実ユーザ ID
または実効ユーザ ID に等しい場合、
または実効ユーザ ID がスーパユーザのものと等しい場合です。
.\" Comment out next line for !_POSIX_SAVED_IDS
.\" or the saved set-user-ID
.\" Next line is for Appendix B.4.2.2 case.
.Pp
.Fn setgid
システムコールは、現在のプロセスの実グループ ID と実効グループ ID と
退避グループ ID を指定した値に設定します。
.\" Comment out next block for !_POSIX_SAVED_IDS
.\" The real group ID and the saved set-group-ID are changed only if the
.\" effective user ID is that of the super user.
.\" I.e.
.\" .Fn setgid
.\" system call is equal to
.\" .Fn setegid
.\" system call if the effective user ID is not that of the super user.
.\" End of block
.Fn setgid
システムコールが許容されるのは、指定の ID がプロセスの実グループ ID
または実効グループ ID に等しい場合、
または実効ユーザ ID がスーパユーザのものと等しい場合です。
.\" Comment out next line for !_POSIX_SAVED_IDS
.\" or the saved set-group-ID
.\" Next line is for Appendix B.4.2.2 case.
.Pp
.Fn seteuid
システムコール
.Pq Fn setegid
は、現在のプロセスの実効ユーザ (グループ ID) を設定します。
実効ユーザ ID は実ユーザ ID または退避ユーザ ID (
.Xr intro 2
と
.Xr execve 2
を参照 ) の値に設定できます。
これを利用し、ユーザ ID 設定された実行可能ファイルの実効ユーザ ID を
実ユーザ ID に切り替えた後に、ユーザ ID 設定の値に戻ることで、
元の権限を得ることができます。
同じように、実効グループ ID は、
実グループ ID または退避グループ ID の値に設定できます。
.Sh 戻り値
.Rv -std
.Sh エラー
本システムコールは次の場合に失敗します:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EPERM
ユーザがスーパユーザでない場合、または指定された uid がその実 ID、
実効 ID、または退避 ID でない場合。
.El
.Sh セキュリティに関する考察
ファイルへの読取りと書込み許可は、
.Xr open 2
が呼ばれた時に判断されます。
一度ファイル記述子がオープンされると、権限を落してもそのプロセスの
読取りまたは書込み許可には影響しません。
指定されたユーザ ID に、そのファイルへの読取りまたは書込み許可が
なくともです。
通常これらのファイルは、新しいプロセスの実行時にオープンされたままとなり、
その結果、ユーザがもしかすると要注意であるデータを読んだり修正したり
できてしまいます。
.Pp
これらのファイルが
.Xr exec 3
呼び出しの後でもオープンされたままにされるのを防ぐには、
close-on-exec フラグを設定するようにしてください:
.Bd -literal
void
pseudocode(void)
{
	int fd;
	/* ... */

	fd = open("/path/to/sensitive/data", O_RDWR);
	if (fd == -1)
		err(1, "open");

	/*
	 * close-on-exec フラグの設定; さらなる情報は fcntl(2) を参照。
	 */
	if (fcntl(fd, F_SETFD, FD_CLOEXEC) == -1)
		err(1, "fcntl(F_SETFD)");
	/* ... */
	execve(path, argv, environ);
}
.Ed
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr getgid 2 ,
.Xr getuid 2 ,
.Xr issetugid 2 ,
.Xr setregid 2 ,
.Xr setreuid 2
.Sh 規格
.Fn setuid
システムコールと
.Fn setgid
システムコールは
.St -p1003.1-90
仕様と互換性があります。
ただし、
.Li _POSIX_SAVED_IDS
.\" Uncomment next line for !_POSIX_SAVED_IDS
は付録 B.4.2.2 の許可された拡張で定義されていません。
.Fn seteuid
システムコールと
.Fn setegid
システムコールは、
.Li _POSIX_SAVED_IDS
の
.Tn POSIX
コンセプトを基礎にして拡張してあり、規格の将来の改定用に提案されています。
.Sh 歴史
.Fn setuid
関数と
.Fn setgid
関数は
.At v7
で登場しました。
