.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1995 David Hovemeyer <daveho@infocom.com>
.\"
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE DEVELOPERS ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE DEVELOPERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/sys/shmctl.2,v 1.9.2.2 2000/12/29 14:44:53 ru Exp %
.\"
.Dd July 17, 1995
.Dt SHMCTL 2
.Os FreeBSD
.Sh 名称
.Nm shmctl
.Nd 共有メモリ制御
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.Fd #include <machine/param.h>
.Fd #include <sys/types.h>
.Fd #include <sys/ipc.h>
.Fd #include <sys/shm.h>
.Ft int
.Fn shmctl "int shmid" "int cmd" "struct shmid_ds *buf"
.Sh 解説
.Fa shmid
によって指定された共有メモリセグメント上で
.Fa cmd
によって指定された処理を実行します。
.Bl -tag -width SHM_UNLOCKX
.It Dv IPC_STAT
.Fa "struct shmid_ds"
のセグメントを取得し、
.Fa buf
によって指定されたメモリにそれを保存します。
.\"
.\" XXX need to make sure that this is correct for FreeBSD
.\"
.It Dv IPC_SET
.Fa "struct shmid_ds"
セグメントの
.Fa shm_perm.uid ,
.Fa shm_perm.gid ,
および
.Fa shm_perm.mode
の各メンバを
.Fa buf
で指された構造体のメンバに変更します。
呼び出しプロセスの実効ユーザ ID は、
.Fa shm_perm.uid
または
.Fa shm_perm.cuid
のどちらかと一致するか、またはスーパユーザ特権を持っている
必要があります。
.It Dv IPC_RMID
システムからセグメントを除去します。セグメントにアタッチしたすべての
プロセスが終了するまで、除去は行われません。しかし、いったん
IPC_RMID 操作が実行されると、それ以降プロセスはそのセグメントに
アタッチすることを許されません。操作が成功するためには、
呼び出しプロセスの実効ユーザ ID が
.Fa shm_perm.uid
または
.Fa shm_perm.cuid
と一致するか、または呼び出しプロセスにスーパユーザ特権が必要です。
.\" .It Dv SHM_LOCK
.\" Locks the segment in memory.  The calling process must have
.\" superuser privileges. Not implemented in FreeBSD.
.\" .It Dv SHM_UNLOCK
.\" Unlocks the segment from memory.  The calling process must
.\" have superuser privileges.  Not implemented in FreeBSD.
.El
.Pp
.Fa shmid_ds
構造体は次のように定義されます。
.\"
.\" I fiddled with the spaces a bit to make it fit well when viewed
.\" with nroff, but otherwise it's straight from sys/shm.h
.\"
.Bd -literal
struct shmid_ds {
    struct ipc_perm shm_perm;   /* 操作パーミッション構造体 */
    int             shm_segsz;  /* セグメントのサイズ (バイト単位) */
    pid_t           shm_lpid;   /* 最後の共有メモリ操作のプロセス ID */
    pid_t           shm_cpid;   /* 作成者のプロセス ID  */
    short           shm_nattch; /* 現在のアタッチの数 */
    time_t          shm_atime;  /* 最後の shmat() の時刻 */
    time_t          shm_dtime;  /* 最後の shmdt() の時刻 */
    time_t          shm_ctime;  /* shmctl() による最後の変更の時刻 */
    void           *shm_internal; /* SystemV の愚行 */
};
.Ed
.Sh 戻り値
処理が正常に完了すると、
.Fn shmctl
は 0 を返します。
そうでない場合は -1 が返され、エラーを示すために
.Va errno
が設定されます。
.Sh エラー
.Fn shmctl
は次の場合に処理に失敗します。
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EINVAL
無効な操作、または
.Fa shmid
に指定された共有メモリセグメントが検出されませんでした。
.\"
.\" XXX I think the following is right: ipcperm() only returns EPERM
.\"	when an attempt is made to modify (IPC_M) by a non-creator
.\"	non-owner
.It Bq Er EPERM
呼び出しプロセスの実効ユーザ ID が、共有メモリセグメントの所有者
または作成者のユーザ ID と一致しません。
.It Bq Er EACCES
操作と共有メモリセグメントモードの間の不一致のために
パーミッションが拒絶されました。
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr shmat 2 ,
.Xr shmdt 2 ,
.Xr shmget 2 ,
.Xr ftok 3
