.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)sigpause.2	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/2/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/compat-43/sigpause.2,v 1.13 2003/06/20 22:41:00 wollman Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd June 2, 1993
.Dt SIGPAUSE 2
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm sigpause
.Nd ブロックされたシグナルを不可分に解放、割込み待機する
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.In signal.h
.Ft int
.Fn sigpause "int sigmask"
.Sh 解説
.Sy このインタフェースは
.Xr sigsuspend 2
.Sy によって旧式のものとなっています。
.Pp
.Fn sigpause
関数は、マスクされたシグナルのセットに
.Fa sigmask
を割り当ててからシグナルの到着を待機します。
戻ると、マスクされたシグナルのセットが復元されます。
通常、
.Fa sigmask
引数の 0 はブロックされるシグナルがないことを表わします。
.Fn sigpause
関数は、常に割り込まれることで終了し、
.Va errno
を
.Er EINTR
に設定して -1 を戻します。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr kill 2 ,
.Xr sigaction 2 ,
.Xr sigblock 2 ,
.Xr sigprocmask 2 ,
.Xr sigsuspend 2 ,
.Xr sigvec 2
.Sh 規格
.Fn sigpause
関数は歴史的な
.Bx 4.3
アプリケーションとのコンパチビリティのために実装されています。
シグナルマスクではなく 1 つのシグナル番号を使用していた、
同じ名前の非コンパチブルなインタフェースが
.At V
に存在し、そこから
.St -p1003.1-2001
のオプションとして
.Sy X/Open System Interfaces
.Pq Tn XSI
にコピーされました。
.Sh 歴史
.Fn sigpause
関数は、
.Bx 4.2
で登場しました。
しかし、現在ではこの関数を使用することは推奨されていません。
