.\" Copyright (c) 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" Berkeley Software Design, Inc.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)sigpending.2	8.3 (Berkeley) 1/12/94
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/sys/sigpending.2,v 1.5.2.1 2000/04/22 17:07:07 phantom Exp %
.\" man-jp:Ohsawa: 2001/03/13 %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/sys/sigpending.2,v 1.5.2.2 2001/01/16 21:59:22 ben Exp %
.\"
.Dd January 12, 1994
.Dt SIGPENDING 2
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm sigpending
.Nd 保留中のシグナルの得る
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.Fd #include <signal.h>
.Ft int
.Fn sigpending "sigset_t *set"
.Sh 解説
.Fn sigpending
関数は、
.Fa set
で示された場所の呼び出しプロセスの配信が保留になっているシグナルの
マスクを戻します。シグナルは、現在マスクをかけられているとき、
または配信前に一時的に保留になります
(通常、後者を検出することはできません)。
.Sh 戻り値
戻り値 0 は呼び出しが正常に完了したことを示します。
戻り値 -1 はエラーが起こったことを示し、
.Va errno
にエラーが起こったり理由が設定されます。
.Sh エラー
.Fn sigpending
関数は、現在のところエラーを検出しません。
.\" 2001/03/13:jp-man ohsawa 2001/01/16 に修正がはいりました。
.\" .Fn sigpending
.\" will fail if:
.\" .Bl -tag -width Er
.\" .It Bq Er EFAULT
.\" The
.\" .Fa set
.\" argument specified an invalid address.
.\" .El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr sigaction 2 ,
.Xr sigprocmask 2
.Sh 規格
.Fn sigpending
関数呼び出しは、
.St -p1003.1-90
に準拠しています。
