.\" Copyright (c) 1985, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)sigreturn.2	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/sys/sigreturn.2,v 1.6.2.2 2000/05/06 13:34:15 phantom Exp %
.\"
.Dd June 4, 1993
.Dt SIGRETURN 2
.Os BSD 4.3
.Sh 名称
.Nm sigreturn
.Nd シグナルから戻る
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.Fd #include <signal.h>
.Pp
.Bd -literal
struct	sigcontext {
	int	sc_onstack;		/* 復元するスタックステータス */
	int	sc_mask;		/* 復元するシグナルマスク */
	int	sc_esp;			/* マシンステート */
	int	sc_ebp;
	int	sc_isp;
	int	sc_eip;
	int	sc_efl;
	int	sc_es;
	int	sc_ds;
	int	sc_cs;
	int	sc_ss;
	int	sc_edi;
	int	sc_esi;
	int	sc_ebx;
	int	sc_edx;
	int	sc_ecx;
	int	sc_eax;
#  define sc_sp sc_esp
#  define sc_fp sc_ebp
#  define sc_pc sc_eip
#  define sc_ps sc_efl
};
.Ed
.Ft int
.Fn sigreturn "struct sigcontext *scp"
.Sh 解説
.Fn sigreturn
によって、マスクの細かい設定解除、スタックのスイッチ、
シグナルコンテキストからの復帰を行なえます。
プロセスのシグナルマスクとスタックステータスは、
コンテキストから復元されます。システムコールは戻りません。
ユーザのスタックポインタ、フレームポインタ、引数ポインタ、
プロセッサステータスロングワードは、コンテキストから復元されます。
実行は、指定された pc で再開されます。
このシステムコールは、前に実行していたプログラムに
シグナルから戻る場合に、トランポリンコードと
.Xr longjmp 3
で使用します。
.Sh 注釈
このシステムコールは 4.2
.Tn BSD
では使用できないので、下位互換性が必要な場合は使用しないでください。
.Sh 戻り値
処理が正常に完了すると、このシステムコールは戻りません。
そうでない場合は -1 が返され、エラーを示すために
.Va errno
が設定されます
.Sh エラー
以下のうち 1 つが発生すると、
.Fn sigreturn
は処理を失敗し、プロセスコンテキストは変更されずに残ります。
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EFAULT
.Fa Scp
が、プロセスアドレス空間の有効な部分ではない
メモリを指しています。
.It Bq Er EINVAL
プロセスステータスロングワードが正しくないか、
プロセスの権限レベルを不適切に上げています。
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr sigvec 2 ,
.Xr setjmp 3
.Sh 歴史
.Fn sigreturn
関数呼び出しは、
.Bx 4.3
で登場しました。
