.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)sigsetmask.2	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/2/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/compat-43/sigsetmask.2,v 1.13 2002/12/18 12:45:08 ru Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd June 2, 1993
.Dt SIGSETMASK 2
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm sigsetmask ,
.Nm sigblock
.Nd 現在のシグナルマスクを操作する
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.In signal.h
.Ft int
.Fn sigsetmask "int mask"
.Ft int
.Fn sigblock "int mask"
.Ft int
.Fn sigmask "int signum"
.Sh 解説
.Bf -symbolic
このインタフェースは
.Ef
.Xr sigprocmask 2
.Bf -symbolic
によって旧式のものとなっています。
.Ef
.Pp
.Fn sigsetmask
関数は、指定された
.Fa mask
を現在のシグナルマスクに設定します。
.Fa mask
で対応するビットが 1 である場合、シグナルの配信はブロックされます。
.Fn sigblock
関数は、指定された
.Fa mask
中のシグナルを現在のシグナルマスクに追加します。
.Fn sigsetmask
と違い、上書きはしません。
マクロ
.Fn sigmask
は、指定した
.Fa signum
のマスクを作成するために提供されています。
.Pp
システムでは、
.Dv SIGKILL
や
.Dv SIGSTOP
のブロックが許可されていません。
.Sh 戻り値
.Fn sigblock
関数と
.Fn sigsetmask
関数は、マスクされたシグナルの前のセットが戻されます。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr kill 2 ,
.Xr sigaction 2 ,
.Xr sigprocmask 2 ,
.Xr sigsuspend 2 ,
.Xr sigvec 2 ,
.Xr sigsetops 3
.Sh 歴史
.Fn sigsetmask
関数と
.Fn sigblock
関数は
.Bx 4.2
ではじめて登場しました。
しかし、現在では この関数を使用することは推奨されていません。
