.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)sigsuspend.2	8.2 (Berkeley) 5/16/95
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/sys/sigsuspend.2,v 1.16 2003/06/24 15:41:19 yar Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd May 16, 1995
.Dt SIGSUSPEND 2
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm sigsuspend
.Nd ブロックされているシグナルの解放と割込み待ちを不可分に実行
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.In signal.h
.Ft int
.Fn sigsuspend "const sigset_t *sigmask"
.Sh 解説
.Fn sigsuspend
システムコールは、
.Fa sigmask
が指す集合に、ブロックされているシグナルマスクを一時的に変更してから、
シグナルの到着を待ちます。
復帰時に、マスクされたシグナルの前の集合が復元されます。
通常の場合、シグナルマスク集合は空で、呼び出しが続く間、
すべてのシグナルがブロックされないことを表わします。
.Pp
通常の用法では、
.Xr sigprocmask 2
でシグナルをブロックして重要なセクションを始め、
シグナルの発生で修正された変数を調べて
実行すべき仕事がないことを判断し、
.Xr sigprocmask 2
が返した以前のマスクで
.Fn sigsuspend
を使用することでプロセスが停止して仕事を待ちます。
.Sh 戻り値
.Fn sigsuspend
システムコールは、常に割り込まれることで終了し、
.Va errno
を
.Er EINTR
に設定し、-1 を返します。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr sigaction 2 ,
.Xr sigpending 2 ,
.Xr sigprocmask 2 ,
.Xr sigsetops 3
.Sh 規格
.Fn sigsuspend
システムコールは、
.St -p1003.1-90
に適合しています。
