.\" Copyright (C) 2000 Jason Evans <jasone@FreeBSD.org>.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice(s), this list of conditions and the following disclaimer as
.\"    the first lines of this file unmodified other than the possible
.\"    addition of one or more copyright notices.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice(s), this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
.\"    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
.\"    distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER(S) ``AS IS'' AND ANY
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
.\" PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER(S) BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR
.\" BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY,
.\" WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE
.\" OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE,
.\" EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/sys/sigwait.2,v 1.11 2004/07/03 23:14:34 ru Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd April 27, 2000
.Dt SIGWAIT 2
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm sigwait
.Nd シグナルの組の選択
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.In signal.h
.Ft int
.Fn sigwait "const sigset_t * restrict set" "int * restrict sig"
.Sh 解説
.Fn sigwait
システムコールは
.Fa set
によって指定されたシグナルの組を選択します。
選択されたシグナルのいずれも保留状態でない場合には、
.Fn sigwait
は 1 つ以上の選択されたシグナルが発生させられるまで待ちます。
それから
.Fn sigwait
は不可分に、そのプロセスのために保留されているシグナルの組から 1 つの選択
されたシグナルをクリアし、
.Fa sig
によって指されている場所にそのクリアされたシグナル番号を設定します。
.Pp
.Fa set
によって指定されたシグナルは
.Fn sigwait
の呼び出し時点でブロックされるべきです。
.Sh 戻り値
成功した場合には、
.Fn sigwait
は 0 を返し
.Fa sig
によって指されている場所にそのクリアされたシグナル番号を設定します。
そうでない場合には、エラー番号が返されます。
.Sh エラー
.Fn sigwait
システムコールは、以下の場合に失敗します:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EINVAL
.Fa set
引数が 1 つ以上の無効なシグナル番号を指定しています。
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr sigaction 2 ,
.Xr sigpending 2 ,
.Xr sigsuspend 2 ,
.Xr pause 3 ,
.Xr pthread_sigmask 3
.Sh 規格
.Fn sigwait
関数は
.St -p1003.1-96
に適合しています。
