.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)swapon.2	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/sys/swapon.2,v 1.16 2004/07/02 23:52:13 ru Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd June 4, 1993
.Dt SWAPON 2
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm swapon , swapoff
.Nd インタリーブページング/スワップ用のスワップデバイスの制御
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.In unistd.h
.Ft int
.Fn swapon "const char *special"
.Ft int
.Fn swapoff "const char *special"
.Sh 解説
.Fn swapon
システムコールは、システムがページングとスワッピングの割り当てに
ブロックデバイス
.Fa special
を使用できるようにします。
潜在的に使用できるデバイスの名前はシステムに知られていて、
システム設定時に定義されます。
.Fa special
のスワップ領域のサイズは、デバイスがスワッピングに
初めて使用できるようになるときに算出されます。
.Pp
.Fn swapoff
システムコールは、与えられたデバイスのページングとスワッピングを無効にします。
すべての関連したスワップのメタデータは割り当て解除され、そのデバイスは
他の用途で利用可能にされます。
.Sh 戻り値
エラーが発生した場合は -1 が返され、エラーを示すために
.Va errno
が設定されます。
.Sh エラー
.Fn swapon
および
.Fn swapoff
は共に以下の場合に失敗します:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er ENOTDIR
パスの構成要素中にディレクトリ以外のものが含まれています。
.It Bq Er ENAMETOOLONG
パス名の構成要素が 255 文字を越えているか、
またはパス名全体が 1023 文字を越えています。
.It Bq Er ENOENT
指定したデバイスが存在しません。
.It Bq Er EACCES
指定されたパスには、検索が許可されていないディレクトリが含まれています。
.It Bq Er ELOOP
パス名を変換するときに検出されたシンボリックリンクが多すぎます。
.It Bq Er EPERM
スーパユーザ以外のユーザによって呼び出されました。
.It Bq Er EFAULT
.Fa special
引数がプロセスに割り当てられたアドレス空間の外側を指しています。
.El
.Pp
加えて、
.Fn swapon
は以下の理由で失敗します:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EINVAL
システムがブート時のスワップデバイス数
.Va vm.nswapdev
の制限に達しています。
.It Bq Er ENOTBLK
.Fa special
引数はブロックデバイスではありません。
.It Bq Er EBUSY
.Fa special
で指定したデバイスは、すでにスワッピングに使用できるようになっています。
.It Bq Er ENXIO
.Fa special
のメジャーデバイス番号が範囲外になっています
(これは関連するハードウェアに対応するデバイスドライバが
存在しないことを表します)。
.It Bq Er EIO
スワップデバイスをオープンする間に入出力エラーが発生しました。
.El
.Pp
最後に、
.Fn swapoff
は以下の場合に失敗します:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EINVAL
現在、システムが
.Fa special
にスワップしていません。
.It Bq Er ENOMEM
与えられたデバイスのページングとスワッピングを安全に無効化するための
仮想メモリが十分に利用できません。
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr config 8 ,
.Xr swapon 8 ,
.Xr sysctl 8
.Sh 歴史
.Fn swapon
システムコールは、
.Bx 4.0
で登場しました。
.Fn swapoff
システムコールは、
.Fx 5.0
で登場しました。
