.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)symlink.2	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/sys/symlink.2,v 1.8.2.2 2000/05/06 13:34:15 phantom Exp %
.\"
.Dd June 4, 1993
.Dt SYMLINK 2
.Os BSD 4.2
.Sh 名称
.Nm symlink
.Nd ファイルへのシンボリックリンクの作成
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.Fd #include <unistd.h>
.Ft int
.Fn symlink "const char *name1" "const char *name2"
.Sh 解説
シンボリックリンク
.Fa name2
が
.Fa name1
に作成されます
.Pf ( Fa name2
は作成されるファイルの名前で、
.Fa name1
はシンボリックリンクの作成に使用される文字列です)。
どちらの名前も任意のパス名です。
ファイルが同じファイルシステムに存在する必要はありません。
.Sh 戻り値
処理が正常に完了すると、値 0 が返されます。エラーが発生すると
エラーコードが
.Va errno
に保存され、-1 が返されます。
.Sh エラー
以下のような場合、シンボリックリンクはエラーとなります。
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er ENOTDIR
.Fa name2
パスの構成要素中にディレクトリ以外のものが含まれています。
.It Bq Er ENAMETOOLONG
パス名の構成要素が 255 文字を越えているか、
またはパス名全体が 1023 文字を越えています。
.It Bq Er ENOENT
指定されたファイルが存在しません。
.It Bq Er EACCES
.Fa name2
指定されたパスには、検索が許可されていないディレクトリが含まれています。
.It Bq Er ELOOP
パス名を変換するときに検出されたシンボリックリンクが多すぎます。
.It Bq Er EEXIST
.Fa name2
がすでに存在します。
.It Bq Er EIO
.Fa name2
のディレクトリエントリの作成中、または
.Fa name2
の i ノード の割り当て中、あるいは
.Fa name2
のリンクコンテンツの書き出し中に
入出力エラーが発生しました。
.It Bq Er EROFS
ファイル
.Fa name2
は読取り専用ファイルシステム上にあります。
.It Bq Er ENOSPC
新しいシンボリックリンクを作成するディレクトリを含むファイルシステム上に
空間が残っていないため、新しいシンボリックリンクを作成できません。
.It Bq Er ENOSPC
シンボリックリンクを含むファイルシステム上にシンボリックリンクを
作る空間が残っていないため、
新しいシンボリックリンクを作成できません。
.It Bq Er ENOSPC
シンボリックリンクを作成するファイルシステム上の i ノードが枯渇しました。
.It Bq Er EDQUOT
新しいシンボリックリンクのエントリを配置するディレクトリ
ディレクトリを含むファイルシステム上のユーザのディスクブロックが
枯渇したため、作成できません。
.It Bq Er EDQUOT
シンボリックリンクを作るファイルシステム上のユーザの
ディスクブロックのクォータが枯渇したため、
新しいシンボリックリンクを作成できません。
.It Bq Er EDQUOT
シンボリックリンクを作成するファイルシステム上のユーザの i ノードの
クォータが枯渇しました。
.It Bq Er EIO
ディレクトリエントリの作成中、または i ノードの割り当て中に
入出力エラーが発生しました。
.It Bq Er EFAULT
.Fa name1
か
.Fa name2
が、プロセスに割り当てられたアドレス空間の範囲外を指しています。
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr ln 1 ,
.Xr link 2 ,
.Xr lstat 2 ,
.Xr readlink 2 ,
.Xr unlink 2 ,
.Xr symlink 7
.Sh 歴史
.Fn symlink
関数呼び出しは、
.Bx 4.2
で登場しました。
