.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)sync.2	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\"
.Dd June 4, 1993
.Dt SYNC 2
.Os BSD 4
.Sh 名称
.Nm sync
.Nd ディスク上のディスクブロックをメモリ上の状態と同期化する
.Sh 書式
.Fd #include <unistd.h>
.Ft void
.Fn sync void
.Sh 解説
.Fn sync
関数は、ブロックバッファキャッシュの修正済み
バッファをディスクに強制的に書き出します。カーネルは
この情報をコアに維持し、システムが要求するディスク I/O
転送の数を減らします。システムのクラッシュ後に
キャッシュの情報が失われると、ユーザプロセス
.Xr update 4
が
.Fn sync
を頻繁に呼び出します
(約 30 秒ごと)。
.Pp
それぞれのファイル記述子属性の同期を取るには、関数
.Xr fsync 2
を使用します。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr fsync 2 ,
.Xr update 4 ,
.Xr sync 8
.Sh バグ
.Fn sync
は、バッファが完全にフラッシュされる前に戻る
ことがあります。
.Sh 歴史
.Fn sync
関数呼び出しは、
.At v6
で登場しました。
