.\"	%NetBSD: sysarch.2,v 1.6 1998/02/25 21:24:57 perry Exp %
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/sys/sysarch.2,v 1.2.2.1 2000/04/22 17:07:09 phantom Exp %
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1991 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     from: @(#)syscall.2	6.3 (Berkeley) 3/10/91
.\"
.Dd October 11, 1993
.Dt SYSARCH 2
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm sysarch
.Nd アーキテクチャ依存型システムコール
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.Fd #include <machine/sysarch.h>
.Ft int
.Fn sysarch "int number" "void *args"
.Sh 解説
.Fn sysarch
は、
.Fa args
ポインタが指定する引数で、
.Fa number
が指定するアーキテクチャ依存型関数を実行します。
.Fa args
は、関数の実引数を定義する構造体のポインタです。
アーキテクチャ依存型関数のシンボリック定数と引数の構造体は、
ヘッダファイル
.Ao Pa machine/sysarch.h Ac
にあります。
.Pp
ユーザプログラムでは、
.Fn sysarch
システムコールを直接呼び出さず、
アーキテクチャ依存型ライブラリを使用して関数にアクセスしてください。
.Pp
.Sh 戻り値
戻り値については、それぞれのアーキテクチャ依存型関数呼び出しの
マニュアルページを参照してください。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr i386_get_ioperm 2 ,
.Xr i386_get_ldt 2 ,
.Xr i386_vm86 2
.Sh 歴史
このマニュアルページは、
.Nx
から取得されました。
