.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)syscall.2	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/16/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/sys/syscall.2,v 1.11 2003/09/10 19:24:33 ru Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd June 16, 1993
.Dt SYSCALL 2
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm syscall ,
.Nm __syscall
.Nd 間接的なシステムコール
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.In sys/syscall.h
.In unistd.h
.Ft int
.Fn syscall "int number" ...
.Ft off_t
.Fn __syscall "quad_t number" ...
.Sh 解説
.Fn syscall
関数は、指定した
.Fa number
を持つアセンブリ言語インタフェースのシステムコールを、
指定した引数で実行します。
システムコールのシンボリック定数は、ヘッダファイル
.In sys/syscall.h
にあります。
.Fn __syscall
は、1 つ以上の引数が 64 ビット引数で、
引数のアラインメントが正しいことを保証する場合に使用してください。
このシステムコールは、C ライブラリにエントリがない
新しいシステムコールをテストする場合に有用です。
.Sh 戻り値
戻り値は、呼び出すシステムコールで定義されています。
一般的に 0 は正常に完了したことを示します。
-1 はエラーを表わし、エラーコードが
.Va errno
に設定されます。
.Sh バグ
.Xr pipe 2
のように、複数の戻り値があるシステムコールを
シミュレートする方法はありません。
.Sh 歴史
.Fn syscall
関数は、
.Bx 4.0
で登場しました。
