.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)truncate.2	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/sys/truncate.2,v 1.7.2.3 2000/12/08 13:49:32 ru Exp %
.\"
.Dd June 4, 1993
.Dt TRUNCATE 2
.Os BSD 4.2
.Sh 名称
.Nm truncate ,
.Nm ftruncate
.Nd 指定した長さにファイルを切り捨てたり拡張したりする
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.Fd #include <unistd.h>
.Ft int
.Fn truncate "const char *path" "off_t length"
.Ft int
.Fn ftruncate "int fd" "off_t length"
.Sh 解説
.Fn truncate
は、
.Fa path
で指定されるファイルか
.Fa fd
で参照
されるファイルのサイズが、
.Fa length
バイトになるように切り捨てたり拡張します。
ファイルがこのサイズより大きい場合は、余分なデータが失われます。
ファイルがこのサイズより小さい場合は、0 が書き込まれたように拡張されます。
.Fn ftruncate
では、ファイルが書込み用に開いている必要があります。
.Sh 戻り値
戻り値 0 は呼び出しが正常に完了したことを示します。戻り値 -1 は
エラーが起こったことを示し、グローバル変数
.Va errno
はエラーコードを示します。
.Sh エラー
.Fn truncate
は、以下のような場合に処理を失敗します。
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er ENOTDIR
パスの構成要素中にディレクトリ以外のものが含まれています。
.It Bq Er ENAMETOOLONG
パス名の構成要素が 255 文字を越えているか、
またはパス名全体が 1023 文字を越えています。
.It Bq Er ENOENT
指定されたファイルが存在しません。
.It Bq Er EACCES
前置パス名の構成要素について検索許可が拒否されています。
.It Bq Er EACCES
指定されたファイルにユーザが書込めません。
.It Bq Er ELOOP
パス名を変換するときに検出されたシンボリックリンクが多すぎます。
.It Bq Er EISDIR
指定されたファイルがディレクトリになっています。
.It Bq Er EROFS
指定されたファイルは読取り専用ファイルシステム上にあります。
.It Bq Er ETXTBSY
ファイルが、実行中のピュアプロシージャ (共有テキスト) ファイルです。
.It Bq Er EIO
inode の更新をしている間に入出力エラーが発生しました。
.It Bq Er EFAULT
.Fa path
は、プロセスに割り当てられたアドレス空間の範囲外を指しています。
.El
.Pp
.Fn ftruncate
は、以下のような場合に処理を失敗します。
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EBADF
.Fa fd
が有効な記述子ではありません。
.It Bq Er EINVAL
.Fa fd
はファイルではなくソケットを参照しています。
.It Bq Er EINVAL
.Fa fd
が書込み用に開いていません。
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr open 2
.Sh バグ
この呼出しは、ファイルのある範囲を放棄できるように一般化する
必要があります。
.Pp
.Fn truncate
を使用してファイルを拡張すると、移植性が失われます。
.Sh 歴史
.Fn truncate
関数呼び出しは、
.Bx 4.2
で登場しました。
