.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)umask.2	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/sys/umask.2,v 1.5.2.1 1999/08/29 14:49:29 peter Exp %
.\"
.Dd June 4, 1993
.Dt UMASK 2
.Os BSD 4
.Sh 名称
.Nm umask
.Nd ファイルモード生成マスクの設定
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.Fd #include <sys/stat.h>
.Ft mode_t
.Fn umask "mode_t numask"
.Sh 解説
.Fn umask
ルーチンは、プロセスのファイルモード生成マスクを
.Fa numask
に設定し、設定前のマスク値を返します。
.Fa numask
のアクセス権の下位 9 ビットは、
.Xr open 2 ,
.Xr mkdir 2 ,
.Xr mkfifo 2
などのシステムコールが使用し、ファイルモードで要求される
対応するビットをオフにします (
.Xr chmod 2
を参照) 。
ビットをクリアにすることで、各ユーザはそのファイルへの
デフォルトアクセスを制限することができます。
.Pp
デフォルトのマスク値は、S_IWGRP | S_IWOTH
(022、所有者のみの書込みアクセス) です。
子プロセスは、呼び出しプロセスのマスクを継承します。
.Pp
.Sh 戻り値
呼び出しによって、以前のファイルモードマスクの値が返されます。
.Pp
.Sh エラー
.Fn umask
は、常に成功します。
.Pp
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr chmod 2 ,
.Xr mknod 2 ,
.Xr open 2
.Pp
.Sh 規格
.Fn umask
関数呼び出しは、
.St -p1003.1-90
に準拠しています。
.Sh 歴史
.Fn umask
関数呼び出しは、
.At v7
で登場しました。
