.\" Copyright (c) 1994
.\"	Jan-Simon Pendry
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)undelete.2	8.4 (Berkeley) 10/18/94
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/sys/undelete.2,v 1.4.2.3 2000/12/08 13:49:32 ru Exp %
.\"
.Dd October 18, 1994
.Dt UNDELETE 2
.Os BSD 4
.Sh 名称
.Nm undelete
.Nd 削除したファイルの回復
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.Fd #include <unistd.h>
.Ft int
.Fn undelete "const char *path"
.Sh 解説
.Fn undelete
関数は、
.Fa path
で指定された削除済みファイルを回復しようとします。
現在は、指定されたオブジェクトがユニオンファイルシステムの
ホワイトアウトである場合に限って動作します。
このシステムコールはホワイトアウトを削除し、
ユニオンスタックの下層にあるオブジェクトが表示されるようにします。
.Pp
最終的に
.Fn undelete
機能は、その他のログ構造ファイルシステムのような削除済みファイルを
回復できるファイルシステムに拡張されるでしょう。
.Sh 戻り値
処理が正常に完了すると、値 0 が返されます。
そうでない場合は -1 が返され、エラーを示すために
.Va errno
が設定されます。
.Sh エラー
.Fn undelete
は、以下の場合にエラーとなります。
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er ENOTDIR
パスの構成要素中にディレクトリ以外のものが含まれています。
.It Bq Er ENAMETOOLONG
パス名の構成要素が 255 文字を越えているか、
またはパス名全体が 1023 文字を越えています。
.It Bq Er EEXIST
パスがホワイトアウトを参照していません。
.It Bq Er ENOENT
指定されたホワイトアウトが存在しません。
.It Bq Er EACCES
前置パス名の構成要素について検索許可が拒否されています。
.It Bq Er EACCES
回復するファイルを含むディレクトリについて、書込み許可が拒否されています。
.It Bq Er ELOOP
パス名を変換するときに検出されたシンボリックリンクが多すぎます。
.It Bq Er EPERM
ファイルを含むディレクトリがスティッキーとマークされ、
そのディレクトリが、有効なユーザ ID に所有されていません。
.It Bq Er EIO
ディレクトリエントリの更新している間に入出力エラーが発生しました。
.It Bq Er EROFS
指定されたファイルは読取り専用ファイルシステム上にあります。
.It Bq Er EFAULT
.Fa path
は、プロセスに割り当てられたアドレス空間の範囲外を指しています。
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr unlink 2 ,
.Xr mount_union 8
.Sh 歴史
.Fn undelete
関数呼び出しは、4.4BSD-Lite ではじめて登場しました。
