.\"	$NetBSD: utrace.2,v 1.11 2003/04/24 12:17:49 wiz Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2000 The NetBSD Foundation, Inc.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to The NetBSD Foundation
.\" by Gregory McGarry <g.mcgarry@ieee.org>.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"      This product includes software developed by the NetBSD
.\"      Foundation, Inc. and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of The NetBSD Foundation nor the names of its
.\"    contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived
.\"    from this software without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/sys/utrace.2,v 1.3 2004/07/03 23:14:34 ru Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd December 28, 2000
.Dt UTRACE 2
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm utrace
.Nd ktrace のログの中へのユーザレコードの挿入
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.In sys/types.h
.In sys/param.h
.In sys/time.h
.In sys/uio.h
.In sys/ktrace.h
.Ft int
.Fn utrace "const void *addr" "size_t len"
.Sh 解説
プロセストレースに、ユーザによって供給された情報のレコードを追加します。
このレコードは
.Fa addr
によって指されているメモリから
.Fa len
バイトを格納しています。
この呼び出しは、
呼び出したプロセスがトレースされている場合にのみ効果があります。
.Sh 戻り値
.Rv -std
.Sh エラー
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EINVAL
指定されたデータの長さ
.Fa len
が
.Dv KTR_USER_MAXLEN
よりも大きいです。
.It Bq Er ENOMEM
要求を実現するためにはメモリが不足しています。
.It Bq Er ENOSYS
現在実行中のカーネルが
.Xr ktrace 2
のサポート
.Pq Cd "options KTRACE"
を外してコンパイルされています。
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr kdump 1 ,
.Xr ktrace 1 ,
.Xr ktrace 2
.Sh 歴史
.Fn utrace
システムコールは
.Fx 2.2
ではじめて登場しました。
