.\" Copyright (c) 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)intro.1	8.2 (Berkeley) 12/30/93
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\" $Id: intro.1,v 1.3 2002-09-29 12:00:02 blackend Exp $
.\" Original revision: 1.16
.\"
.Dd October 21, 2001
.Dt INTRO 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm intro
.Nd introduction aux commandes générales (outils et utilitaires)
.Sh DESCRIPTION
La section numéro un des manuels contient la plupart des commandes
qui composent l'environnement utilisateur
.Bx.
Certaines des commandes incluses dans la section un sont des éditeurs de
texte, des commandes d'interpréteurs de commandes, des outils de
recherche et de tri,
des commandes de manipulation de fichier,
des commandes d'état du système,
des commandes de copie de fichier à distance, des commandes concernant
le courrier électronique, des compilateurs et des outils de compilation,
des outils de formatage, des commandes d'impression.
.Pp
Toutes les commandes renvoient une valeur d'état lors de la terminaison
qui pourra être testée pour voir si la commande s'est terminée
normalement.
Traditionellement, une valeur de 0 signifie une terminaison de la
commande couronnée de succès, alors qu'une valeur >0 indique une erreur.
Certaines commandes tentent de décrire la nature de l'échec en utilisant
les codes d'erreurs comme définis dans
.Xr sysexits 3 ,
alors que d'autres fixent simplement l'état à une valeur arbitraire >0
(typiquement 1).
.Sh VOIR AUSSI
.Xr apropos 1 ,
.Xr man 1 ,
.Xr intro 2 ,
.Xr intro 3 ,
.Xr sysexits 3 ,
.Xr intro 4 ,
.Xr intro 5 ,
.Xr intro 6 ,
.Xr intro 7 ,
.Xr security 7 ,
.Xr intro 8 ,
.Xr intro 9
.Pp
Guides dans les
.%T "Documents Supplémentaires du Manuel de l'Utilisateur d'UNIX" .
.Sh HISTORIQUE
La page de manuel
.Nm
est apparue sous la
.At v6 .
