.\" Copyright (c) 1989, 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" Kim Letkeman.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)cal.1	8.2 (Berkeley) 4/28/95
.\" jpman %Id: cal.1,v 1.2 1997/05/17 15:48:43 horikawa Stab %
.\".
.Dd April 28, 1995
.Dt CAL 1
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm cal
.Nd カレンダを表示する
.Sh 書式
.Nm cal
.Op Fl jy
.Op Oo Ar month Oc Ar \ year
.Sh 解説
.Nm cal
は簡単なカレンダを表示します。
もし引数が指定されなかった場合は今月のものを表示します。
オプションには以下のものがあります。
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl j
ユリウス日で表示します。(1 月 1 日を第 1 日とする通日です)
(訳注:天文学での定義とは異なります。[Mar.1996])
.It Fl y
今年のカレンダを表示します。
.El
.Pp
パラメータが 1 つの時は西暦年 (1 - 9999) を指定したものとして、
その年のカレンダを表示します。
年は完全な形で指定して下さい。例えば
.Dq Li cal 89
では 1989 年のカレンダは表示
.Em しません
。パラメータが 2 つの時は月 (1 - 12) と年を指定します。
パラメータを指定しない場合は今月のカレンダを表示します。
.Pp
一年は 1 月 1 日から始まります。
.Pp
グレゴリオ暦への切り替えは 1752 年 9 月の 3 日目に行われたものと
しています。
この時までに、ほとんどの国が切り替えを済ませていました (いくつかの
国は 1900 年代初期まで切り替えませんでした)。
切り替えにあたり 11 日分の日付が飛ばされたので、この月の暦は少し
変わっています。
.Sh 歴史
.Nm
コマンドは
.At v6
から登場しました。
