.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1996, 1997, 1998 Shigio Yamaguchi. All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by Shigio Yamaguchi.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the author nor the names of any co-contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" jpman %Id: gtags.1,v 1.3 1997/07/27 12:57:00 horikawa Stab %
.\"
.Dd Oct 10, 1998
.Dt GTAGS 1
.Os BSD 4
.Sh 名称
.Nm gtags
.Nd global 用のタグファイルを作成する
.Sh 書式
.Nm gtags
.Op Fl c
.Op Fl i
.Op Fl o
.Op Fl w
.Op Fl v
.Op Ar dbpath
.Sh 解説
.Nm
は
.Xr global 1
で用いる GTAGS, GRTAGS, GSYMS, GPATH ファイルを作成します。
.Nm
はサブディレクトリをたどり、ソースファイルを読み、シンボルの位置を把握して
その情報をタグファイルに保存します。
C や yacc や java やアセンブラのソースファイルがサポートされています。
このコマンドはソースツリーのルートで実行する必要があります。
.Pp
ソースディレクトリが CDROM のような読み込み専用デバイスの場合、
タグファイルを作成するディレクトリを
.Ar dbpath
に指定します。
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl c
コンパクトフォーマットのタグフファイルを作成します。
.It Fl i
タグファイルをインクリメンタルに更新します。
.It Fl o
GSYMS ファイルの作成を抑止します。
.Xr global 1
で
.Fl s
オプションを使用しない場合に使用してください。
.It Fl w
警告メッセージを表示します。
.It Fl v
冗長モード。
.Sh 関連ファイル
.Bl -tag -width tags -compact
.It Pa GTAGS
関数定義に関するタグファイル。
.It Pa GRTAGS
関数参照に関するタグファイル。
.It Pa GSYMS
他のシンボルに関するタグファイル。
.It Pa GPATH
パスインデックスファイルであり、
インクリメンタル更新とコンパクトフォーマットで使用します。
.El
.Sh 診断
.Nm
はエラーが発生すると非 0 を、そうでなければ 0 を返します。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr btreeop 1 ,
.Xr global 1 ,
.Xr htags 1 ,
.Xr vi 1 .
.Sh バグ
GTAGS, GRTAGS, GSYMS はとても大きくなります。
実行前にディスクの空き容量をチェックしてください。
.br
アセンブラのサポートは完璧には程遠く、ソースファイルから ENTRY() と 
ALTENTRY() を抜き出すだけです。
FreeBSD と Linux のカーネルソースでどうにか大丈夫なだけでしょう。
.br
タグファイルに関する並行制御はしていません。
.Sh 作者
Shigio Yamaguchi (shigio@wafu.netgate.net)
.Sh 歴史
.Nm
コマンドは FreeBSD 2.2.2 で登場しました。
