.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)ranlib.1	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/6/93
.\"	%Id: ranlib.1,v 1.3.2.1 1997/08/05 06:39:14 charnier Exp %
.\" jpman %Id: ranlib.1,v 1.3 1997/08/20 12:40:27 horikawa Stab %
.\"
.Dd June 6, 1993
.Dt RANLIB 1
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm ranlib
.Nd アーカイブライブラリの目次テーブルの作成
.Sh 書式
.Nm
.Op Fl t
.Ar file ...
.Sh 解説
.Nm
は、
アーカイブライブラリの外部参照テーブルを作成します。
このテーブルは通常、ローダ
.Xr ld 1
に用いられます。
このテーブルには ``__.SYMDEF'' という名前が付けられ、
アーカイブの先頭に追加されます。
アーカイブ中の非実行可能ファイルやローダに関係のないシンボルは無視されます。
.Pp
オプションは以下の通りです:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl t
__.SYMDEF ファイルの最終修正時刻をセットします。
ローダの中には、この時刻をアーカイブの最終修正時刻と比較し、
テーブルがアーカイブに対して最新の状態であることを確認するものが
あります(FreeBSD のローダはそうではありません)。
もしアーカイブに何ら変更を加えないまま最終修正時刻が書き換えられた場合
(例えば
.Xr cp 1
によって)、
.Fl t
オプションを用いて最終修正時刻を ``touch'' し、
テーブルが最新状態であるように見せかけることができます。
この機能は
.Xr make 1
の
.Fl t
オプションを使用した後でも有用です。
.El
.Sh 関連ファイル
.Bl -tag -width /tmp/ranlib.XXXXXX -compact
.It Pa /tmp/ranlib.XXXXXX
一時ファイル名
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr ar 1 ,
.Xr ld 1 ,
.Xr lorder 1 ,
.Xr nm 1 ,
.Xr ranlib 5
.Sh 歴史
.Nm
コマンドは
.At v7
から登場しました。
