.\" Copyright (c) 1997
.\"	John-Mark Gurney.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of the author nor the names of any co-contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY John-Mark Gurney AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS''
.\" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/brandelf/brandelf.1,v 1.17 2007/03/09 14:36:18 ru Exp %
.\" $FreeBSDru: frdp/doc/ru_RU.KOI8-R/man/man1/brandelf.1,v 1.2 2007/10/31 11:26:04 ru Exp $
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd 6 февраля 1997
.Dt BRANDELF 1
.Os
.Sh НАЗВАНИЕ
.Nm brandelf
.Nd пометить бинарный файл ELF для определённого ABI
.Sh СИНТАКСИС
.Nm
.Op Fl lv
.Op Fl f Ar номер_ELF_ABI
.Op Fl t Ar строка
.Ar
.Sh ОПИСАНИЕ
Утилита
.Nm
помечает бинарный файл ELF для исполнения под определённым ABI во
.Fx .
.Pp
Имеются следующие опции:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl f Ar номер_ELF_ABI
Принуждает помечать указанным номером ELF ABI.
Несовместима с опцией
.Fl t .
Эти номера присваиваются SCO/USL.
.It Fl l
Выводит список всех известных типов ELF в стандартный файл ошибок.
.It Fl v
Включает подробный вывод.
.It Fl t Ar строка
Помечает указанные бинарные файлы ELF типом ABI
.Ar строка .
Сейчас поддерживаются типы ABI
.Dq Li FreeBSD ,
.Dq Li Linux
и
.Dq Li SVR4 .
.It Ar файл
Если указан
.Fl t Ar строка ,
помечает
.Ar файл
типом
.Ar строка ,
в противном случае просто выведет тип ABI файла.
.El
.Sh СТАТУС ЗАВЕРШЕНИЯ
Статус завершения равен 0 в случае успешного завершения и 1 в
случае сбоя по причине несуществующего файла,
слишком короткого файла,
невозможности правильно пометить файл,
или если была указана метка неизвестного типа и при этом
не была указана опция
.Fl f .
.Sh ПРИМЕРЫ
Ниже приведён пример типичного использования команды
.Nm :
.Bd -literal -offset indent
brandelf file
brandelf -t Linux file
.Ed
.Sh СМОТРИ ТАКЖЕ
.Rs
.%A The Santa Cruz Operation, Inc.
.%T System V Application Binary Interface
.%D 29 апреля 1998 (DRAFT)
.%O http://www.sco.com/developer/devspecs/
.Re
.Sh ИСТОРИЯ
Справочная страница
.Nm
впервые появилась во
.Fx 2.2 .
.Sh АВТОРЫ
Эту страницу справочника написал
.An John-Mark Gurney Aq gurney_j@efn.org .
