.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)colrm.1	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/6/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/colrm/colrm.1,v 1.11 2005/01/17 07:44:14 ru Exp %
.\" $FreeBSDru: frdp/doc/ru_RU.KOI8-R/man/man1/colrm.1,v 1.2 2006/12/16 19:34:44 ru Exp $
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd 4 августа 2004
.Dt COLRM 1
.Os
.Sh НАЗВАНИЕ
.Nm colrm
.Nd удалить столбцы символов из файла
.Sh СИНТАКСИС
.Nm
.Op Ar начальный Op Ar конечный
.Sh ОПИСАНИЕ
Утилита
.Nm
удаляет выбранные столбцы из строк в файле.
Столбцом считается один символ в строке.
Чтение производится из стандартного ввода.
Обработанный текст записывается в стандартный вывод.
.Pp
Если указан только
.Ar начальный
столбец, то выведены будут только столбцы с номером меньше, чем
.Ar начальный .
Если указаны оба \[em] и
.Ar начальный ,
и
.Ar конечный
столбцы, то в стандартный вывод будут записаны столбцы
с номером меньше, чем
.Ar начальный
или больше, чем
.Ar конечный .
Нумерация столбцов начинается с единицы, а не с нуля.
.Pp
В процессе чтения, символ табуляции увеличивает позицию текущего столбца
до следующей, кратной восьми.
Символ забоя (backspace) уменьшает позицию текущего столбца на единицу.
.Sh ОКРУЖЕНИЕ
Переменные окружения
.Ev LANG , LC_ALL
и
.Ev LC_CTYPE
влияют на выполнение
.Nm ,
как описано в
.Xr environ 7 .
.Sh СТАТУС ЗАВЕРШЕНИЯ
.Ex -std
.Sh СМОТРИ ТАКЖЕ
.Xr awk 1 ,
.Xr column 1 ,
.Xr cut 1 ,
.Xr paste 1
.Sh ИСТОРИЯ
Команда
.Nm
появилась в
.Bx 3.0 .
