.\"-
.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1988, 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	From: @(#)hostname.1	8.1 (Berkeley) 5/31/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/bin/domainname/domainname.1,v 1.19 2006/12/18 15:45:01 ru Exp %
.\" $FreeBSDru: frdp/doc/ru_RU.KOI8-R/man/man1/domainname.1,v 1.3 2007/11/20 13:50:08 ru Exp $
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd 18 сентября 1994
.Dt DOMAINNAME 1
.Os
.Sh НАЗВАНИЕ
.Nm domainname
.Nd установить или отобразить имя текущего домена YP/NIS
.Sh СИНТАКСИС
.Nm
.Op Ar ypdomain
.Sh ОПИСАНИЕ
Утилита
.Nm
выводит имя текущего домена YP/NIS.
Суперпользователь может
установить имя домена, указав его в качестве аргумента; это
происходит, как правило, во время выполнения сценария инициализации
.Pa /etc/rc.network ,
который обычно запускается во время начальной загрузки системы.
.Sh ЗАМЕЧАНИЯ
Доменное имя YP/NIS (ранее называлось ``Yellow Pages'', но было
переименовано по правовым причинам) не обязательно должно как-либо соотноситься
с доменным именем доменной системы имён (DNS), несмотря на то, что часто они
назначаются одинаковыми для удобства администрирования.
.Sh СМОТРИ ТАКЖЕ
.Xr getdomainname 3
.Sh ИСТОРИЯ
Команда
.Nm
появилась во
.Fx 1.1 .
Она была основана на аналогичной команде в
.Tn SunOS .
