.\" Copyright (c) 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)intro.1	8.2 (Berkeley) 12/30/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/share/man/man1/intro.1,v 1.17 2006/12/24 10:25:23 ru Exp %
.\" $FreeBSDru: frdp/doc/ru_RU.KOI8-R/man/man1/intro.1,v 1.7 2007/11/20 13:50:08 ru Exp $
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd 21 октября 2001
.Dt INTRO 1
.Os
.Sh НАЗВАНИЕ
.Nm intro
.Nd введение в основные команды (инструментарий и утилиты)
.Sh ОПИСАНИЕ
Первый раздел справочника включает в себя большинство команд из
пользовательского окружения
.Bx .
В первый раздел включены такие команды, как
текстовые редакторы, командные оболочки,
средства поиска и сортировки,
команды манипулирования файлами,
команды просмотра состояния системы,
удалённого копирования файлов, почтовые команды,
компиляторы и сопутствующие средства,
средства форматированного вывода,
команды для работы с принтером.
.Pp
Чтобы узнать, успешно ли завершилась команда, можно проверить
значение статуса завершения, который все команды устанавливают
на выходе.
Традиционно, значение 0 означает успешное
завершение команды, а значение >0 означает ошибку.
Некоторые команды стараются описать сущность сбоя,
используя коды завершения, определённые в
.Xr sysexits 3 ,
а другие просто устанавливают статус в произвольное значение >0 (обычно 1).
.Sh СМОТРИ ТАКЖЕ
.Xr apropos 1 ,
.Xr man 1 ,
.Xr intro 2 ,
.Xr intro 3 ,
.Xr sysexits 3 ,
.Xr intro 4 ,
.Xr intro 5 ,
.Xr intro 6 ,
.Xr intro 7 ,
.Xr security 7 ,
.Xr intro 8 ,
.Xr intro 9
.Pp
Учебные пособия, входящие в состав
.%T "UNIX User's Manual Supplementary Documents" .
.Sh ИСТОРИЯ
Страница справочника
.Nm
появилась в
.At v6 .
