.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)mkfifo.1	8.2 (Berkeley) 1/5/94
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/mkfifo/mkfifo.1,v 1.15 2006/12/15 14:14:17 ru Exp %
.\" $FreeBSDru: frdp/doc/ru_RU.KOI8-R/man/man1/mkfifo.1,v 1.4 2007/11/13 11:08:03 ru Exp $
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd 5 января 1994
.Dt MKFIFO 1
.Os
.Sh НАЗВАНИЕ
.Nm mkfifo
.Nd создать именованный канал fifo
.Sh СИНТАКСИС
.Nm
.Op Fl m Ar режим
.Ar имя_канала ...
.Sh ОПИСАНИЕ
Утилита
.Nm
создаёт в указанном порядке требуемые именованные каналы fifo.
.Pp
Имеются следующие опции:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl m
Устанавливает вновь созданным каналам указанные права доступа,
игнорируя при этом маску прав доступа
.Xr umask 2
вызывающего процесса.
Аргумент
.Ar режим
имеет тот же формат, что и в команде
.Xr chmod 1 .
Если права доступа указаны в виде строки символов, то символы операций
.Ql +
(плюс) и
.Ql -
(минус) интерпретируются относительно предполагаемого
начального набора прав доступа,
.Dq Li a=rw
(доступ на чтение и запись разрешён всем).
.El
.Pp
Если опция
.Fl m
не указана, каналы создаются с правами доступа
.Li 0666 ,
модифицированными маской прав доступа
.Xr umask 2
вызывающего процесса.
Утилита
.Nm
требует право на запись в родительский каталог.
.Sh СТАТУС ЗАВЕРШЕНИЯ
.Ex -std
.Sh СМОТРИ ТАКЖЕ
.Xr mkdir 1 ,
.Xr rm 1 ,
.Xr mkfifo 2 ,
.Xr mknod 2 ,
.Xr mknod 8
.Sh СТАНДАРТЫ
Предполагается, что утилита
.Nm
совместима со стандартом
.St -p1003.2 .
.Sh ИСТОРИЯ
Команда
.Nm
появилась в
.Bx 4.4 .
