.\" Copyright (c) 1996
.\"	Steve Passe <fsmp@FreeBSD.ORG>.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. The name of the developer may NOT be used to endorse or promote products
.\"    derived from this software without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.sbin/mptable/mptable.1,v 1.10 2005/02/13 22:25:29 ru Exp %
.\" $FreeBSDru: frdp/doc/ru_RU.KOI8-R/man/man1/mptable.1,v 1.2 2007/11/20 13:50:08 ru Exp $
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd 28 апреля 1997
.Dt MPTABLE 1
.Os
.Sh НАЗВАНИЕ
.Nm mptable
.Nd показать таблицу конфигурации MP
.Sh СИНТАКСИС
.Nm
.Op Fl dmesg
.Op Fl verbose
.Op Fl grope
.Op Fl help
.Sh ОПИСАНИЕ
Команда
.Nm
находит таблицу конфигурации MP на Intel(tm) MP-совместимой
материнской плате, и производит её анализ.
Она может оказаться полезной при отладке SMP ядра, которое не грузится,
или для проверки конфигурации системы.
Команда
.Nm
может быть выполнена и с однопроцессорным ядром.
.Pp
Утилита должна запускаться с привилегиями группы kmem.
.Pp
Имеются следующие опции:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl dmesg
Дополнительно показать вывод команды
.Xr dmesg 8 .
.It Fl grope
Искать таблицу даже в тех областях памяти, в которых её обычно не ищут.
Используйте эту опцию
.Em только
в крайнем случае.
.It Fl help
Вывести сообщение о формате использования и выйти.
.It Fl verbose
Вывести дополнительную информацию.
.El
.Sh СМОТРИ ТАКЖЕ
.Xr smp 4 ,
.Xr dmesg 8
.Sh ИСТОРИЯ
Команда
.Nm
впервые появилась во
.Fx 3.0 .
.Sh АВТОРЫ
.An Steve Passe Aq fsmp@FreeBSD.org
