.\"-
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)pwd.1	8.2 (Berkeley) 4/28/95
.\" %FreeBSD: src/bin/pwd/pwd.1,v 1.26 2005/01/16 16:41:58 ru Exp %
.\" $FreeBSDru: frdp/doc/ru_RU.KOI8-R/man/man1/pwd.1,v 1.2 2006/12/20 09:38:36 ru Exp $
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd 12 апреля 2003
.Dt PWD 1
.Os
.Sh НАЗВАНИЕ
.Nm pwd
.Nd вернуть имя рабочего каталога
.Sh СИНТАКСИС
.Nm
.Op Fl L | P
.Sh ОПИСАНИЕ
Утилита
.Nm
пишет в стандартный вывод полное имя пути к текущему рабочему каталогу.
.Pp
Некоторые командные оболочки имеют встроенную команду
.Nm
с похожей либо идентичной функциональностью.
Обратитесь к странице справочника
.Xr builtin 1 .
.Pp
Имеются следующие опции:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl L
Выводить логическое имя текущего рабочего каталога.
.It Fl P
Выводить физическое имя текущего рабочего каталога
(все символические ссылки разыменовываются).
.El
.Pp
Если не указано никакой опции, подразумевается опция
.Fl P .
.Sh ОКРУЖЕНИЕ
Утилита
.Nm
использует следующие переменные окружения:
.Bl -tag -width ".Ev PWD"
.It Ev PWD
Логическое имя текущего рабочего каталога.
.El
.Sh СТАТУС ЗАВЕРШЕНИЯ
.Ex -std
.Sh СМОТРИ ТАКЖЕ
.Xr builtin 1 ,
.Xr cd 1 ,
.Xr csh 1 ,
.Xr sh 1 ,
.Xr getcwd 3
.Sh СТАНДАРТЫ
Утилита
.Nm
соответствует стандарту
.St -p1003.1-2001 .
.Sh ПРОБЛЕМЫ
Команда
.Ic dirs
в
.Xr csh 1
всегда работает быстрее, потому что она встроена в него.
Однако, в редких случаях, когда текущий каталог или
каталог его содержащий были перемещены после того,
как командная оболочка перешла туда, команда может
выдать другой результат.
.Pp
Опция
.Fl L
не будет работать, если используемая командная оболочка
не экспортирует переменную окружения
.Ev PWD .
