.\" Copyright (c) 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)uname.1	8.3 (Berkeley) 4/8/94
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/uname/uname.1,v 1.18 2005/01/18 13:43:54 ru Exp %
.\" $FreeBSDru: frdp/doc/ru_RU.KOI8-R/man/man1/uname.1,v 1.1 2006/12/10 22:30:50 ru Exp $
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd 2 апреля 2003
.Dt UNAME 1
.Os
.Sh НАЗВАНИЕ
.Nm uname
.Nd вывести информацию о системе
.Sh СИНТАКСИС
.Nm
.Op Fl aimnprsv
.Sh ОПИСАНИЕ
Команда
.Nm
пишет в стандартный вывод название реализации операционной системы.
Если указываются опции, в стандартный вывод пишется информация об
одной или более характеристике системы.
.Pp
Имеются следующие опции:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl a
Действовать, как будто были указаны опции
.Fl m , n , r , s
и
.Fl v .
.It Fl i
Записать в стандартный вывод идентификатор ядра.
.It Fl m
Записать в стандартный вывод тип текущей аппаратной платформы.
.It Fl n
Записать в стандартный вывод имя данной системы.
.It Fl p
Записать в стандартный вывод тип процессорной архитектуры машины.
.It Fl r
Записать в стандартный вывод текущий уровень релиза
операционной системы.
.It Fl s
Записать в стандартный вывод название реализации операционной системы.
.It Fl v
Записать в стандартный вывод уровень версии этого релиза
операционной системы.
.El
.Pp
Если был задан флаг
.Fl a
или несколько других флагов, вся информация пишется в
одну строку, разделённая пробелами.
.Sh ОКРУЖЕНИЕ
Переменная окружения, состоящая из
.Ev UNAME_
и любого флага утилиты
.Nm
(кроме
.Fl a )
позволяет изменить соответствующие данные на значение этой переменной.
.Sh СТАТУС ЗАВЕРШЕНИЯ
.Ex -std
.Sh СМОТРИ ТАКЖЕ
.Xr sysctl 3 ,
.Xr uname 3 ,
.Xr sysctl 8
.Sh СТАНДАРТЫ
Команда
.Nm
предположительно соответствует спецификации
.St -p1003.2 .
.Sh ИСТОРИЯ
Команда
.Nm
появилась в PWB UNIX.
