.\"	$NetBSD: ypwhich.1,v 1.3 1996/05/13 02:43:46 thorpej Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1994 Christopher G. Demetriou
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"      This product includes software developed by Christopher G. Demetriou.
.\" 3. The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote products
.\"    derived from this software without specific prior written permission
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/ypwhich/ypwhich.1,v 1.10 2006/12/28 10:58:06 ru Exp %
.\" $FreeBSDru: frdp/doc/ru_RU.KOI8-R/man/man1/ypwhich.1,v 1.1 2006/12/28 11:08:23 ru Exp $
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd 23 февраля 1994
.Dt YPWHICH 1
.Os
.Sh НАЗВАНИЕ
.Nm ypwhich
.Nd вернуть имя сервера YP с оригиналом базы данных
.Sh СИНТАКСИС
.Nm
.Op Fl d Ar домен
.Oo
.Op Fl t
.Fl m Oo Ar имя_базы Oc | Ar хост
.Oc
.Nm
.Fl x
.Sh ОПИСАНИЕ
Утилита
.Nm
сообщает, какой сервер
.Tn YP
предоставляет
.Tn YP Ns
-сервисы клиенту, или где находится оригинал базы данных.
Если утилита вызвана без аргументов, она сообщает
имя сервера
.Tn YP
для локальной машины.
Если указан
.Ar хост ,
то указанная машина опрашивается для определения
используемого ею сервера
.Tn YP .
.Pp
Имеются следующие опции:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl d Ar домен
Указать домен, отличный от домена по умолчанию.
.It Fl t
Отключить преобразование псевдонимов баз данных в
соответствующие имена.
.It Fl m Op Ar имя_базы
Найти главный
.Tn YP
сервер для указанной базы данных.
Аргумент
.Ar хост
не может быть указан совместно с опцией
.Fl m .
Аргумент
.Ar имя_базы
может быть либо именем базы данных, либо псевдонимом.
Если аргумент
.Ar имя_базы
не указан,
.Nm
выдаст список доступных баз.
.It Fl x
Вывести таблицу псевдонимов.
.El
.Sh СМОТРИ ТАКЖЕ
.Xr domainname 1 ,
.Xr ypcat 1 ,
.Xr ypmatch 1 ,
.Xr yp 8 ,
.Xr ypbind 8 ,
.Xr yppoll 8 ,
.Xr ypset 8
.Sh АВТОРЫ
.An Theo De Raadt
