.\" Copyright (c) 1989, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" Eamonn McManus of Trinity College Dublin.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)arithmetic.6	8.1 (Berkeley) 5/31/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/games/arithmetic/arithmetic.6,v 1.3 1999/08/27 23:28:52 peter Exp %
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.TH ARITHMETIC 6 "May 31, 1993"
.UC 4
.SH 名称
arithmetic \- 簡単な算数のクイズ
.SH 書式
.B arithmetic
.B [
\-o +\-x/
.B ]
.B [
\-r range
.B ]
.SH 解説
.I arithmetic
はあなたに簡単な算数の問題を解くように求めます。
それぞれの問題は次の問題にいく前に正しく答えなければなりません。
20 問ごとに、
.I arthmetic
は今までの得点と掛かった時間を表示します。
割り込みか end-of-file 文字を入力すればいつでも終了することができます。
.PP
オプションは以下のとおりです:
.TP
\-o
デフォルトでは、
.I arithmetic
は 0 から 10 までの数値の足し算と、それに対応する引き算を尋ねます。
一つまたはそれ以上の文字
.BR +\-x/ 
を与えることによって、それぞれ足し算、引き算、掛け算、割り算の問題を
頼むことができます。
これらの文字を1回よりも多く与えると、その種類の問題はより多く尋ねられます。
.TP
\-r
.I range
が与えられた場合には、
.I arithmetic
は以下の方式にしたがって問題の数値を選びます。
足し算と掛け算においては、足されるたり掛けられたりする数値は全て 0 と 
.IR range
の間になります。
引き算と割り算においては、要求される答と割ったり引いたりする数値の両方が
0 と
.IR range
の間になります
(もちろん、
.I arithmetic
はあなたに 0 で割らせることはしません)。デフォルトの
.I range
は 10 です。
.PP
あなたが問題を間違えた場合には、
.I arithmetic
は関連する数値を覚え、同じ種類の問題を出題する時、他の数値よりも頻繁に
選ぶようになります。
最終的には
.I arithmetic
は許して忘れます。
.PP
.I arithmetic
を説得して、あなたに正しい答を教えるようにはできません。
自分自身で答をみつけてください。
.SH 診断
``What?'' 答が間違っていた時。
``Right!'' 答が正しかった時。
``Please type a number.'' arithmetic があなたの入力を理解できなかった時。
.SH "関連項目"
bc(1), dc(1)
