.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1993, 1995
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	From: @(#)banner.6	8.2 (Berkeley) 4/29/95
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/banner/banner.6,v 1.4.2.2 2000/12/08 15:13:19 ru Exp %
.\" jpman %Id: banner.6,v 1.4 1999/01/16 17:06:39 kuma Stab %
.\"
.\" 以下は参考にした Linux JM のクレジット
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 1997,1998 MAEHARA Kohichi
.\"         all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Sat Feb 21 00:00:00 JST 1998
.\"         by MAEHARA Kohichi <maeharak@kw.netlaputa.ne.jp>
.\"
.Dd April 29, 1995
.Dt BANNER 6
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm banner 
.Nd プリンタ用に大きな見出しを出力する
.Sh 書式
.Nm banner
.Op Fl d
.Op Fl t
.Op Fl w Ar width
.Ar message ...
.Sh 解説
.Nm banner
は大きくてクオリティの高い見出し文字を標準出力に出力します。
message が省略された場合は、
プロンプトを出して標準入力から一行入力を読みとります。
.Pp
出力は、適切な幅の紙に切れ目無く印刷されるでしょう。
.Pp
次のオプションが使用可能です:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl d
デバッグを有効化します。
.It Fl t
トレースを有効化します。
.It Fl w Ar width
出力幅を 132 から
.Ar width
へ変更します。
狭い端末向きです。
.El
.Sh バグ
 <、 >、 [、 ]、 \\、^、 _、{、 }、 |、 ~、といったいくつかの
.Tn ASCII
キャラクタは利用できません。
また、"、'、& はおかしな風に見えます (が役立つでしょう)。
.Pp
.Fl w
オプションは縦横を間引するように実装されています。
このため、あまり小さな数値が指定されると、出力がつぶれてしまいます。
また、文字がくっついてしまうこともあります。
.Sh 作者
.An Mark Horton
.\"ZZZ: 3.0-RELEASE complianted by N. Kumagai, 99-1-16
