.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)battlestar.6	8.1 (Berkeley) 5/31/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/games/battlestar/battlestar.6,v 1.4 1999/08/27 23:28:55 peter Exp %
.\" jpman %Id: battlestar.6,v 1.3 1998/11/25 12:51:31 horikawa Stab %
.\"
.TH BATTLESTAR 6 "May 31, 1993
.UC 6
.SH 名称
battlestar \- 情熱的な冒険ゲーム
.SH 書式
.B battlestar
[
.B -r (保存されたゲームを再開)
]
.br
.fi
.SH 解説
.I battlestar
は古典的な形式の冒険ゲームですが、パズル的な性格よりも、
いくぶん探検ゲームとしての性格を持っています。
ゲームではいくつか魔法の単語が使われますが、概して、
簡単な英語でもお望みの行動を指示できるでしょう。
.SH 設定
闇の現れる以前、バトルスターたちが天を統治したる頃...
.br
.nf

		神はみっつを造り、その娘たる
		美しき妖精たち、すなわち水の女神たちに与えり。
		ひとつは幸運と純粋なる驚異の功績をもたらす。
		ふたつは大地を浄化し、大海をもゆるがす。
		みっつは世を支配し、いかずちにて天上を一掃す。

.fi
.PP
かの時代、偉大なる魔術師たちが世に知られ、その呪力は想像を超えり。
いかなる物も希薄なる空気より取り出し、`su' なる言葉を発し
消えることかなえり。
.PP
かの時代、男たちは黄金への欲望、優れたる武器への望みに知られ、
光熱爆破にも耐える剣、鎖かたびらが鋳造されり。
.PP
しかし、闇の舞い降りし時、正義の治世は没落せり。
剣も兜も国の指導者も野に転がり落ちたり。
バトルスターの全艦隊も一隻の舟と成り果てり。
.SH コマンド例
.nf

	take	---	物を取る
	drop	---	物を捨てる

	wear	---	持っている物を着る
	draw	---	着ている物を脱いで持つ

	puton	---	物を取り、それを着る
	take off --	物を脱ぎ、それを捨てる

	throw  <物> <方向>   (訳注: 投げる)

	!	<シェルエスケープ>

.fi
.SH 物の暗黙指定
.nf

	>-: take watermelon
	watermelon:
	Taken.
	>-: eat
	watermelon:
	Eaten.
	>-: take knife and sword and apple, drop all
	knife:
	Taken.
	broadsword:
	Taken.
	apple:
	Taken.
	knife:
	Dropped.
	broadsword:
	Dropped.
	apple:
	Dropped.
	>-: get
	knife:
	Taken.

.fi
.PP
次に来るべき単語の「影」が存在していて、利用できることに
注意してください。つまり、"take knife" と指示してから
"drop" と指示すると、取ったばかりの knife を捨てることになります。
.SH 得点と持ち物一覧
コマンド "score" と "inven" はあなたの現在のゲーム状況を表示します。
.SH ゲームの保存
コマンド "save" はゲーム内容をファイル "Bstar" に保存します。
保存された内容はゲーム起動時に "-r" オプションを指定して再開できます。
.SH 方向
compass を持っていれば、コンパスの示す方向 N, S, E, W が指定できます。
compass を持っていなければ、R, L, A, B と指定しなくてはいけません。
それぞれ、右, 左, 前, 後ろを意味します。
部屋の描写に使われる方向は常に相対的方向 R, L, A, B になります。
.SH 歴史
battlestar は 1979 年に C 言語の正確さを試すために作成しました。
ゲーム内で起こる面白い出来事のほとんどはソースコードに直接記述されています。
ですので、ゲームに関する抗議のメールを送らないでください !
代わりに、芸術のための芸術としてお楽しみください !
.SH 作者
David Riggle
.SH 励ましと協力
Chris Guthrie
.br
Peter Da Silva
.br
Kevin Brown
.br
Edward Wang
.br
Ken Arnold & Company
.SH バグ
数えきれません。
.SH ファンメール
edward%ucbarpa@Berkeley.arpa, chris%ucbcory@berkeley.arpa,
riggle.pa@xerox.arpa へどうぞ。
