.\" Copyright (c) 1989, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" Landon Curt Noll.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)factor.6	8.1 (Berkeley) 5/31/93
.\"
.\" %FreeBSD: src/games/factor/factor.6,v 1.5 1999/08/27 23:29:01 peter Exp %
.\"
.\" By: Landon Curt Noll   chongo@toad.com,   ...!{sun,tolsoft}!hoptoad!chongo
.\"
.\"   chongo <for a good prime call: 391581 * 2^216193 - 1> /\oo/\
.\"
.\" jpman %Id: factor.6,v 1.3 1998/04/08 10:27:18 kuma Stab %
.\" 以下は Linux JM のクレジット
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 1997,1998 MAEHARA Kohichi
.\"         all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Sat Feb 21 00:00:00 JST 1998
.\"         by MAEHARA Kohichi <maeharak@kw.netlaputa.ne.jp>
.\"
.\"WORD: 10 most wanted  FBI の出す凶悪犯リスト
.\"
.\"
.TH FACTOR 6 "Jan 7, 1999"
.UC 7
.SH 名称
factor, primes \- factor は素因数分解を行なう, primes は素数を求める
.SH 書式
.B factor
-[h] [ number ] ...
[ number ] ...
.PP
.B primes
-[h] [ start [ stop ]]
.SH 解説
.I factor
ユーティリティは 0 以上 ULONG_MAX (
32 ビットアーキテクチャでは 4294967295 であり、
64 ビットアーキテクチャでは 18446744073709551615) 以下
の整数を素因数分解します。
素因数分解されると、元の整数の後ろに ``:'' をつけて、
さらにその後ろに一行で因数のリストが表示されます。
因数は空白で区切りながら昇順に表示されます。
もし同じ因数で複数回割ることができる場合は、その因数は回数分表示されます。
.PP
.I factor
に 1 つ以上の引数を与えて実行すると、
それぞれについて素因数分解を行います。
.PP
.I factor
を引数無しで実行すると、
.I factor
は一行につき一つの数値を、
ファイルの終了またはエラーとなるまで、標準入力から読み込みます。
先頭の空白ならびに空行は無視されます。
数字の前に一つだけ - か + の記号がついているのはかまいません。
数字は非数字キャラクタ(たとえば改行)で終了します。
数字を一つ読む毎に、それは素因数分解されます。
入力行はそれぞれ一行が255文字を越えてはなりません。
.PP
.I primes
ユーティリティは
.B start
以上
.B stop
未満の素数を一行に一つ、昇順で表示します。
.B start 
は最低でも 0 以上で、
.B stop\&
未満であることが必要です。
.B stop
は 4294967295 よりも大きくてはなりません。
.B stop
を省略した場合のデフォルトは 4294967295 です。
.PP
引数なしで
.I primes
ユーティリティを起動した場合、
.B start
は標準入力から読み込まれます。
この場合
.B stop
として 4294967295 が用いられます。
.B start
の数字の頭に + 記号を付けるのはかまいません。
.B start
の数字は非数字のキャラクタ(例えば改行)で終了します。
入力行は255文字を越えてはなりません。
.SH オプション
.LP
.TP 8
.B \-h
10 進数ではなく 16 進数で、結果を表示します。
.SH 診断
範囲外あるいは不正な入力を与えると、
答として `ouch' を標準エラーに出力します。
.SH バグ
.I factor
は ``十大凶悪'' 因子のリストを処理するのには使えませんし、
.I primes
で素数の世界記録を求めることはできません。
