.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)fish.6	8.1 (Berkeley) 5/31/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/games/fish/fish.6,v 1.3 1999/08/27 23:29:02 peter Exp %
.\" jpman %Id: fish.6,v 1.3 1998/10/25 22:13:29 vanitas Stab %
.\"
.TH FISH 6 "May 31, 1993"
.UC 4
.SH 名称
fish \- ``Go Fish'' 遊び
.SH 書式
.ft B
fish [\-p]
.ft R
.SH 解説
.I fish
は伝統的な子供のカードゲームの
.IR "Go Fish"
です。
.PP
コンピュータはプレイヤとコンピュータ自身に 7 枚のカードを配り、
デッキの残りは (比喩的に言うと) 顔を伏せて場に置きます。
ゲームの目的は ``ブック''、すなわち一つの階級の
すべてのカードを集めることです。
例えば、4 枚の 2 を集めれば、
プレイヤは ``2 のブック'' を得たことになります。
.PP
オプションを以下に示します:
.TP
\-p
プロフェッショナルモード
.PP
コンピュータは誰からゲームを始めるかランダムに決めます。
それから、コンピュータとプレイヤは階級を指定してカードを交互に要求します。
もし、要求されたプレイヤが求められた階級のカードを持っていた場合には、
要求したプレイヤにそれを譲ります。
プレイヤは要求する階級のカードを少なくとも
1 枚は手札に持っていなければなりません。
他のプレイヤが持っていない階級のカードをプレイヤが要求した時には
要求したプレイヤは ``Go Fish!'' と言われます。
そして、要求したプレイヤは配られていないカードから 1 枚のカードを引きます。
もし、要求したカードを引いた場合には、そのプレイヤのターンが続き、
他のプレイヤにさらにカードを要求します。
そうでなければ、他のプレイヤのターンになります。
.PP
プレイヤが他のプレイヤからカードを得るか、
またはデッキから引くかしてブックを完成させた時には、
そのカードは脇に置かれ、ゲームではもう使いません。
.PP
ゲームはどちらかのプレイヤの手札がなくなった時点で終ります。
ブックが最も多いプレイヤの勝ちになります。
.PP
.I fish
はどのような入力を受け入れるかについて説明します。
.SH バグ
コンピュータはごく稀にいかさまをします。
