.\" Copyright (c) 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" Jim R. Oldroyd at The Instruction Set.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)quiz.6	8.1 (Berkeley) 5/31/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/games/quiz/quiz.6,v 1.3.2.1 2000/12/08 13:40:05 ru Exp %
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd May 31, 1993
.Dt QUIZ 6
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm quiz
.Nd ランダムな知識試験
.Sh 書式
.Nm quiz
.Op Fl t
.Op Fl i Ar file
.Op Ar question answer
.Sh 解説
.Nm
ユーティリティはランダムな事柄に関するあなたの知識を試します。
科目のデータベースがあり、
その中から科目を選ぶことができます。
引数がなければ、
.Nm
は得られる科目の一覧を表示します。
.Pp
オプションを以下に示します:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl t
チュートリアルモードを使います。
このモードでは、
1 回目で正解できなかった時にはその問題を後で繰り返して出します。
そして、あなたがその問題を習得することを助けるため、
新しい問題は頻繁には出しません。
.It Fl i
他の索引ファイルを指定します。
.El
.Pp
科目はカテゴリに分かれており、
同じ科目から任意の 2 つのカテゴリを選ぶことができます。
.Nm
は最初のカテゴリから問題を尋ね、2 番目のカテゴリの解答を期待します。
例えば、コマンド ``quiz victim killer'' は犠牲者の名称から問題を出し、
その犠牲者に時ならぬ死を与える者をあなたが答えることを期待します。
それに対して、コマンド ``quiz killer victim'' は反対の動作をします。
.Pp
もしあなたの解答が誤っていたら
.Nm
は再び尋ねます。
正解を見るためには空行を入力してください。
.Sh 索引ファイルとデータファイルの書式
索引ファイルとデータファイルの書式は似ています。
コロンで区切ったいくつかの欄で行を構成します。
その欄は正規表現形式とし、使用するメタ文字を以下に示します:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width "pat|pat" -compact -offset indent
.It pat|pat
選択可能なパターン
.It {pat}
省略可能なパターン
.It [pat]
区切り文字、例えば pat[pat|pat]pat
.El
.Pp
索引ファイルではそれぞれの行は科目を表します。
それぞれの科目の最初の欄はその科目のデータファイルのパス名です。
残りの欄には、
その科目でのそれぞれのカテゴリのタイトルを正規表現で記述します。
.Pp
データファイルではそれぞれの行は問題 / 解答の組を表現しています。
それぞれの欄はそのカテゴリの問題 / 解答のための情報です。
.Pp
バックスラッシュ文字 (``\e'') は文法上重要な文字を引用するために使うか、
あるいは継続する行があることを示すために行末で使います。
.Pp
もし、問題または、その解答のどちらかが空白でしたら
.Nm
はその問題を出すことを抑制するでしょう。
.Sh 関連ファイル
.Bl -tag -width /usr/share/games/quiz.db -compact
.It Pa /usr/share/games/quiz.db
デフォルトの索引ファイルとデータファイル
.El
.Sh バグ 
.Nm quiz
はある科目に関してはかなり冷笑的です。
