.\" Copyright (c) 1989, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)rain.6	8.1 (Berkeley) 5/31/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/games/rain/rain.6,v 1.4.2.2 2001/08/16 10:08:23 ru Exp %
.\" $FreeBSD: doc/ja_JP.eucJP/man/man6/rain.6,v 1.4 2001/07/29 05:15:25 horikawa Exp $
.\"
.\" 以下は Linux JM のクレジット
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 1997,1998 MAEHARA Kohichi
.\"         all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Sat Feb 21 00:00:00 JST 1998
.\"         by MAEHARA Kohichi <maeharak@kw.netlaputa.ne.jp>
.\"
.Dd May 31, 1993
.Dt RAIN 6
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm rain
.Nd 雨の降る様を表示する
.Sh 書式
.Nm
.Op Fl d Ar delay
.Sh 解説
.Nm
による表示は、
.Tn VAX/VMS
での同名のプログラムに倣って作成されたものです。
適切な効果を得るためには、端末を 9600 ボーに設定しておくか、
.Fl d
オプションを使用して更新間隔をミリ秒単位で指定する必要があります。
適切な間隔は 120 ですが、デフォルト値は 0 です。
.Sh 作者
.An Eric P. Scott
