.\" Copyright (c) 1988, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)rogue.6	8.1 (Berkeley) 5/31/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/games/rogue/rogue.6,v 1.4.2.2 2001/03/05 18:10:24 ru Exp %
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd December 7, 2000
.Dt ROGUE 6
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm rogue
.Nd 運命の洞窟を探検する
.Sh 書式
.Nm
.Op Fl r
.Op Ar save_file
.Op Fl s
.Op Fl d
.Sh 解説
.Nm
は新しい方式のコンピュータファンタジーゲームです。
.Nm
は多くのコンピュータファンタジーゲームのようにパズルを解くことを目的とする
というよりはむしろ画面志向であり、ゲームの目的は様々な怪物の攻撃から
行きのびてたくさんの金塊を獲得することです。
.Pp
始めるにあたって本当に必要なのは 2 つのコマンドを知ることです。コマンド
.Ic ?\&
は使用可能なコマンドのリストを表示し、コマンド
.Ic /
は画面に表示されている物が何かを調べます。
.Pp
(単に他人の最高得点を破るというのではなく)ゲームに勝利するには、洞窟の 
20 階よりも下にある
.Em イェンダーの魔除け
のある位置を突き止めてそれを持ち帰る
必要があります。このことを成し遂げた者はいまだ誰もおらず、もし誰かが成し遂げ
たならば、彼らは勇者のなかの勇者として歴史に名を残すでしょう。
.Pp
あなたが死んだり、あなたが終了したり、(なにか奇跡が起きて)なんとか
勝利を得たりの如何にかかわらず、ゲームが終了した時には
.Nm
は上位 10 人の得点リストを表示します。得点は完全にあなたがどれだけ金塊を
獲得したかで決まります。あなたが殺された時には 10% のペナルティが科されます。
.Nm
もし
.Ar save_file
が指定されたら、
.Nm
はその保存されたゲームファイルから復帰されます。
.Pp
.Fl s
オプションは得点のリストを表示します。
.Pp
もっと詳細にわたる説明は次の資料を読んでください:
.Rs
.%B A Guide to the Dungeons of Doom
.Re
.Sh 作者
.An Timothy Stoehr ,
.An Michael C. Toy ,
.An Kenneth C. R. C. Arnold ,
.An Glenn Wichman
.Sh 関連ファイル
.Bl -tag -width /var/games/rogue.scoresXX -compact
.It Pa /var/games/rogue.scores
得点ファイル
.It Pa rogue.save
デフォルトのセーブファイル
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Rs
.%A Michael C. Toy
.%A Kenneth C. R. C. Arnold
.%B A Guide to the Dungeons of Doom
.%O (see /usr/share/doc/usd/30.rogue/)
.Re
.Sh バグ
おそらく無限大にありますが、知られている物はありません。
しかし、
氷の怪物は時々あなたを永久に動けなくしますが、バグでは
.Em ありません
。
そういうものです。
.\"ZZZ: 3.0-RELEASE complianted by N. Kumagai, 99-1-16
