.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)trek.6	8.2 (Berkeley) 12/30/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/games/trek/trek.6,v 1.4 1999/08/27 23:29:19 peter Exp %
.\" jpman %Id: trek.6,v 1.3 1998/12/19 20:09:37 vanitas Stab %
.\"
.\" 以下は Linux JM のクレジット
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 1996,1997,1998 MAEHARA Kohichi
.\"         all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Tue Feb 10 00:00:00 JST 1998
.\"         by MAEHARA Kohichi <maeharak@kw.netlaputa.ne.jp>
.\"
.TH TREK 6 "December 30, 1993"
.UC 4
.SH 名称
trek \- トレッキーのためのゲーム
.SH 書式
.B /usr/games/trek
[ [
.B \-a
]
.I filename
]
.SH 解説
.B trek
は宇宙の繁栄と争いのゲームです。以下にコマンドの要旨を掲げます。
完全なドキュメントについては Eric Allman による
.IR trek
を参照してください。
.LP
起動時コマンドラインにファイル名を指定すると、
ゲームのログがそのファイルに記録されます。
ファイル名に先行して
.B \-a
フラグを指定すると、
既に存在するログファイルは切り詰められずに、追加書きされます。
.LP
ゲームは開始時にゲームの期間を入力するように求めます。
期間として有効な入力は \*(lqshort\*(rq, \*(lqmedium\*(rq, \*(lqlong\*(rq
です。
またここで \*(lqrestart\*(rq と入力することで以前中断保存したゲームを
再開することもできます。
次に難易度が尋ねられます。
これは \*(lqnovice\*(rq, \*(lqfair\*(rq,
\*(lqgood\*(rq, \*(lqexpert\*(rq, \*(lqcommodore\*(rq,
\*(lqimpossible\*(rq のいずれかを選ばなければなりません。
普通は novice から始めて徐々に段階を上げていくのがよいでしょう。
.LP
ゲーム中コマンドを忘れたときはクエスチョンマーク(`?')を入力することで
適切なコマンドを知ることができるようになっています。
.SH 作者
Eric Allman
.SH 関連項目
/usr/share/doc/usd/31.trek/*
.SH "コマンド要覧"
(訳注: 右欄は原文にない補足訳)
.ie t .ds f \fB
.el .ds f \fI
.ta 3i
.nf
\*fabandon\fR			総員退艦
\*fca\fRpture			捕虜収容
\*fcl\fRoak \*fu\fRp/\*fd\fRown		クローキング装置\ 作動/解除
\*fc\fRomputer request;...	コンピュータ\ 要求;...
\*fda\fRmages			ダメージ報告
\*fdestruct\fR			自爆手順作動
\*fdo\fRck			宇宙基地へ寄港
\*fhelp\fR			救援要請
\*fi\fRmpulse course distance	推進動力移動\ 方向\ 距離
\*fl\fRrscan			広範囲走査
\*fm\fRove course distance	ワープ移動\ 方向\ 距離
\*fp\fRhasers automatic amount	フェイザー砲\ 自動\ 使用エネルギー量
\*fp\fRhasers manual amt1 couse1 spread1...
				フェイザー砲\ 手動\ 使用エネルギー量\ 方向\ 拡散角度...
\*ft\fRorpedo course [\*fy\fRes] angle/\*fn\fRo
				光子砲\ 方向\ 展開角度
\*fram\fR course distance	強行移動\ 方向\ 距離
\*fr\fRest time			休息\ 期間
\*fshell\fR			シェルエスケープ
\*fsh\fRields up/down		シールド\ 作動/解除
\*fs\fRrscan [\*fy\fRes/\*fn\fRo]		近範囲走査
\*fst\fRatus			状態報告
\*fterminate\fR \*fy\fRes/\*fn\fRo		ゲーム中断
\*fu\fRndock			宇宙基地から発進
\*fv\fRisual course		光学走査\ 方向
\*fw\fRarp warp_factor		ワープファクタ設定\ ワープファクタ
.fi
.DT

