.\" Copyright (c) 1989, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)worm.6	8.1 (Berkeley) 5/31/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/games/worm/worm.6,v 1.3 1999/08/27 23:29:19 peter Exp %
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.TH WORM 6 "May 31, 1993"
.UC 4
.SH 名称
worm \- いも虫を成長させるゲームで遊ぶ
.SH 書式
.B worm
[
.I size
]
.SH 解説
.PP
.I worm
ではあなたは小さないも虫であり、画面上で、いも虫の体は "o"、
頭は "@" です。
移動は (snake ゲームと同様) hjkl キーで行います。
なにもキーを押さないと、最後に移動した方向に進み続けます。
大文字の HJKL キーを押すと、対応する小文字を複数回
(HL では 9 回、JK では 5 回) 押したかのように移動します
(数字にぶつかって停止する場合を除きます)。
.PP
画面上には数字があります。
いも虫が数字を食べると、成長して長くなります。
成長する長さは、いも虫が食べた数字に依存します。
ゲームの目的は、いも虫をどれだけ長くすることができるかを見ることです。
.PP
いも虫が画面の辺もしくは自分自身にぶつかると、ゲームは終了します。
現在のスコア (いも虫が成長した長さ) は、画面の左上の角に表示されます。
.PP
オプションで引数を指定すると、開始時の虫の長さとなります。
.SH バグ
開始時の虫の長さを、1 より小さくもしくは 75 より大きくすると、
さまざまな不思議なことが起ります。
