.\" Copyright (c) 1989, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)worms.6	8.1 (Berkeley) 5/31/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/games/worms/worms.6,v 1.4 1999/08/27 23:29:20 peter Exp %
.\" jpman %Id: worms.6,v 1.3 1998/12/06 22:21:20 vanitas Stab %
.\"
.\" 以下は Linux JM のクレジット
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 1997,1998 MAEHARA Kohichi
.\"         all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Sat Feb 21 00:00:00 JST 1998
.\"         by MAEHARA Kohichi <maeharak@kw.netlaputa.ne.jp>
.\"
.Dd May 31, 1993
.Dt WORMS 6
.Sh 名称
.Nm worms
.Nd 端末ディスプレイに蟲を這わせる
.Sh 書式
.Nm worms
.Op Fl ft
.Op Fl d Ar delay
.Op Fl l Ar length
.Op Fl n Ar number
.Sh 解説
DEC-2136 用プログラム
.Dq worms
の UNIX 版です。
.Pp
オプションは以下の通りです:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl f
蟲達が食い散らす
.Dq 畑
を作ります。
.It Fl t
蟲が通った跡を表示します。
.It Fl d
更新間隔をミリ秒単位で指定します。
高速な端末で有用です。
適切な値は、だいたい 20 から 200 です。
デフォルト値は 0 です。
.It Fl l
蟲の長さを指定します; デフォルトは 16 です。
.It Fl n
蟲の数を指定します; デフォルトは 3 匹です。
