.\" Copyright (c) 1989, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" Dave Taylor, of Intuitive Systems.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)wump.6	8.1 (Berkeley) 5/31/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/games/wump/wump.6,v 1.3 1999/08/27 23:29:21 peter Exp %
.\" jpman %Id: wump.6,v 1.3 1998/12/24 13:01:19 kuma Stab %
.\"
.TH WUMP 6 "May 31, 1993"
.UC 7
.SH 名称
wump \- 地下洞窟で Wump を狩る
.SH 書式
.ft B
wump [-h] [-a arrows] [-b bats] [-p pits] [-r rooms] [-t tunnels]
.ft R
.SH 解説
ゲーム
.I wump 
は、1973 年の
.I "People's Computer Company"
のページ初出のファンタジーゲームを元にしています。
ゲーム Hunt the Wumpus では、
トンネルにより相互接続された多くの部屋からなる洞窟中にあなたは置かれます。
ゲームの目的は、
落し穴に落ちたり矢を使い尽くす前に、
洞窟中のどこかにいる悪い Wump を見つけて射殺すことです。
.PP
オプションを以下に示します:
.TP
.I -a
冒険者が持つ魔法の矢の数を指定します。
デフォルトでは 5 本です。
.TP
.I -b
洞窟中の蝙蝠 (コウモリ) がいる部屋の数を指定します。
デフォルトでは 3 部屋です。
.TP
.I -h
難しいバージョン -- より多くの落し穴、より多くの蝙蝠、そしてより危険な洞窟
-- でプレイします。
.TP
.I -n
洞窟中の底なし落し穴を持つ部屋の数を指定します。
デフォルトでは 3 部屋です。
.TP
.I -r
洞窟中の部屋の数を指定します。
デフォルトの洞窟の大きさは 25 部屋です。
.TP
.I -t
洞窟中の各部屋から別の部屋へ接続するトンネルの数を指定します。
注意：小さな洞窟でトンネル数の指定を多くし過ぎると、
かんたんに洞窟が壊れてしまいます。
デフォルトでは、洞窟の部屋は他の部屋へのトンネルを 3 つ持ちます。
.PP
洞窟をさまよっているうちに、
トンネルはどこにでもあるけれども、
洞窟の構造には奇妙な特徴があることに気づくかもしれません。たとえば、
トンネルによっては、ある部屋から別の部屋に行ける場合でも、
戻り道があるとは限らないことがあります。
また、最もやっかいな特徴として、むちゃくちゃな数の蝙蝠の巣となっている
部屋があります。
邪魔をされた蝙蝠は、ひとまとまりとなってあなたをつまみあげ、
洞窟中の別の場所 (不用心な冒険者を確実に殺す、底なし落し穴がある部屋を含みます)
にあなたを移動してしまいます。
.PP
幸運なことに、武器や道具無しに洞窟に潜り込もうとしているわけではありません。
そして、実際のところ、最も助けになるものは自分自身の感覚です;
Wump の悪臭は
.I 2
部屋先から感じることが可能です。
点在する底なし落し穴からの隙間風を常に感じ取ることができます。
蝙蝠が眠っている洞窟中では羽の音を聞くことができます。
.PP
Wump を殺すためには、魔法の矢の 1 本をもって射る必要があります。
幸運なことに、その生物と同じ部屋にいる必要はなく、
3 部屋もしくは 4 部屋離れたところから矢を射ることが可能です。
.PP
矢を射るときには、矢が通る部屋のリストを打ち込む必要があります。
矢が通る経路上のどこかで、ある部屋から次に指定した部屋へのトンネルが
無い場合には、
矢はその部屋のトンネルのひとつをランダムに選択して飛びます。
本当に不幸な場合には、自分の部屋に戻ってきて
自分自身に当たる可能性すらあります!
