.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001 Alexander Langer
.\"
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This program is free software.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE DEVELOPERS ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE DEVELOPERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" %FreeBSD: src/share/man/man9/DEV_MODULE.9,v 1.4 2001/12/26 23:14:04 davidc Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd March 11, 2001
.Dt DEV_MODULE 9
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm DEV_MODULE
.Nd デバイスドライバモジュール宣言マクロ
.Sh 書式
.In sys/param.h
.In sys/kernel.h
.In sys/module.h
.In sys/conf.h
.Fn DEV_MODULE "name" "modeventhand_t evh" "void *arg"
.Sh 解説
.Fn DEV_MODULE
マクロはデバイスドライバカーネルモジュールを宣言します。
これは
.Vt moduledata_t
構造体を埋めて、それから
.Fn DECLARE_MODULE
を正しい引数で呼び出します。ここで、
.Fa name
はモジュール名で、
.Fa ( arg
を引数として持つ)
.Fa evh
はそのモジュールのためのイベントハンドラです (詳細については
.Xr DECLARE_MODULE 9
を参照)。
イベントハンドラはロード時に
.Fn make_dev
でデバイスを作成し、アンロードされる時に
.Fn destroy_dev
でそのデバイスを破壊することを、期待されています。
.Sh 使用例
.Bd -literal
#include <sys/module.h>
#include <sys/conf.h>

static struct cdevsw foo_devsw = { ... };

static dev_t sdev;

static int
foo_load(module_t mod, int cmd, void *arg)
{
    int err = 0;

    switch (cmd) {
    case MOD_LOAD:
        sdev = make_dev(&foo_devsw, 0, UID_ROOT, GID_WHEEL, 0600, "foo");
        break;          /* 成功 */

    case MOD_UNLOAD:
    case MOD_SHUTDOWN:
        destroy_dev(sdev);
        break;          /* 成功 */

    default:
        err = EINVAL;
        break;
    }

    return(err);
}

DEV_MODULE(foo, foo_load, NULL);
.Ed
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr DECLARE_MODULE 9 ,
.Xr destroy_dev 9 ,
.Xr make_dev 9 ,
.Xr module 9
.Sh 作者
このマニュアルページは
.An Alexander Langer Aq alex@FreeBSD.org
が書きました。
