.\"	dhclient.conf.5
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1997 The Internet Software Consortium.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of The Internet Software Consortium nor the names
.\"    of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived
.\"    from this software without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE INTERNET SOFTWARE CONSORTIUM AND
.\" CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES,
.\" INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
.\" DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE INTERNET SOFTWARE CONSORTIUM OR
.\" CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
.\" SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF
.\" USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND
.\" ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,
.\" OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT
.\" OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" This software has been written for the Internet Software Consortium
.\" by Ted Lemon <mellon@fugue.com> in cooperation with Vixie
.\" Enterprises.  To learn more about the Internet Software Consortium,
.\" see ``http://www.isc.org/isc''.  To learn more about Vixie
.\" Enterprises, see ``http://www.vix.com''.
.\"
.\" Original Revision: 1.2.2.1
.\" jpman %Id: dhclient.leases.5,v 1.3 1999/05/07 17:12:04 kuma Stab %
.TH dhclient.leases 5
.SH 名称
dhclient.leases - DHCP クライアントのリースデータベース
.SH 解説
Internet Software Consortium の DHCP クライアントは、
獲得したリースのうちまだ有効であるものを管理するための、
永続的なデータベースを保持します。
このデータベースは、自由形式の ASCII ファイルであり、
リース 1 つにつき有効な宣言を 1 つ含みます。
あるリースに対して複数の宣言が登場する場合、
ファイル中の最後のものが使用されます。
このファイルはログとして書き込まれますので、
このような状態になることは異常ではありません。
.PP
リース宣言の書式は、
.B dhclient.conf(5)
に記述されています。
.SH 関連ファイル
.B /var/db/dhclient.leases
.SH 関連項目
dhcp-options(5), dhclient.conf(5), dhclient(8),
RFC2132, RFC2131
.SH 作者
.B dhclient(8)
は、Vixie Labs との契約のもとで、Ted Lemon <mellon@vix.com> が記述しました。
本プロジェクトの資金は、Internet Software Corporation が提供しました。
Internet Software Consortium に関する情報は、
.B http://www.isc.org/isc
にあります。
