.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1991, 1993, 1994
.\"     The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"     This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"     California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)alarm.3     8.2 (Berkeley) 4/19/94
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/gen/alarm.3,v 1.9.2.5 2001/12/14 18:33:50 ru Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd April 19, 1994
.Dt ALARM 3
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm alarm
.Nd シグナルタイマアラームを設定する
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.In unistd.h
.Ft unsigned int
.Fn alarm "unsigned int seconds"
.Sh 解説
.Bf -symbolic
このインタフェースは
.Xr setitimer 2
によって旧式のものとなっています。
.Ef
.Pp
.Fn alarm
関数は、シグナル
.Dv SIGALRM
を呼び出し元プロセスに指定の
.Fa seconds
秒後に配信するタイマを設定します。
アラームが既に
.Fn alarm
によって設定されているものの配信されていない場合、
新たな
.Fn alarm
呼び出しは、前の設定を上書きします。
要求
.Fn alarm "0"
は、現在のアラームを無効にし、シグナル
.Dv SIGALRM
は配信されません。
.Pp
.Xr setitimer 2
の制約のために、
.Ar seconds
の許される最大数は
100000000 です。
.Pp
.Sh 戻り値
.Fn alarm
の戻り値は、
.Fn alarm
の直前の呼び出しからタイマに残された時間の量です。
アラームが現時点で設定されていない場合、戻り値は
0 になります。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr setitimer 2 ,
.Xr sigaction 2 ,
.Xr sigpause 2 ,
.Xr sigvec 2 ,
.Xr signal 3 ,
.Xr sleep 3 ,
.Xr ualarm 3 ,
.Xr usleep 3
.\" .Sh 規格
.\" .Fn alarm
.\" 関数は
.\" .St -p1003.1-90
.\" に適合しています。
.Sh 歴史
.Fn alarm
関数は
.At v7
ではじめて登場しました。
