.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" Chris Torek and the American National Standards Committee X3,
.\" on Information Processing Systems.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)fseek.3	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/stdio/fseek.3,v 1.5.2.7 2001/12/14 18:33:57 ru Exp %
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd March 5, 1999
.Dt FSEEK 3
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm fgetpos ,
.Nm fseek ,
.Nm fseeko ,
.Nm fsetpos ,
.Nm ftell ,
.Nm ftello ,
.Nm rewind
.Nd ストリームの位置変更
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.In stdio.h
.Ft int
.Fn fseek "FILE *stream" "long offset" "int whence"
.Ft long
.Fn ftell "FILE *stream"
.Ft void
.Fn rewind "FILE *stream"
.Ft int
.Fn fgetpos "FILE *stream" "fpos_t *pos"
.Ft int
.Fn fsetpos "FILE *stream" "const fpos_t *pos"
.In sys/types.h
.Ft int
.Fn fseeko "FILE *stream" "off_t offset" "int whence"
.Ft off_t
.Fn ftello "FILE *stream"
.Sh 解説
.Fn fseek
関数は、
.Fa stream
が指すストリームのファイル位置インジケータを
設定します。新しい位置はバイト単位で計測され、
.Fa whence
で指定された位置に
.Fa offset
バイトを足すことで得られます。
.Fa whence
が
.Dv SEEK_SET ,
.Dv SEEK_CUR ,
.Dv SEEK_END
に設定されている場合、オフセットは、それぞれ、ファイルの最初、
インジケータの現在位置、ファイルの最後からの相対位置になります。
.Fn fseek
関数の呼び出しで
問題が発生しない場合は、ストリームの end-of-file 指示子がクリアされ、
そのストリームに対する
.Xr ungetc 3
関数の効果は取り消されます。
.Pp
.Fn ftell
関数は、
.Fa stream
が指すストリームのファイル位置インジケータの
現在の値を入手します。
.Pp
.Fn rewind
関数は、
.Fa stream
が指すストリームのファイル位置インジケータを
ファイルの最初に設定します。これは、
ストリームのエラーインジケータがクリアされること (
.Xr clearerr 3
を参照) を除けば、以下と同じ結果になります。
.Pp
.Dl (void)fseek(stream, 0L, SEEK_SET)
.Pp
.Fn fseeko
関数は
.Fn fseek
と同様ですが、
引数には
.Fa long
の代わりに
.Fa off_t
をとります。
同様に
.Fn ftello
関数は
.Fn ftell
と同じですが、
.Fa off_t
を返します。
.Pp
.Fn fgetpos
関数と
.Fn fsetpos
関数は、( whence を
.Dv SEEK_SET
に設定した )
.Fn ftell
や
.Fn fseek
と同じインタフェースで、ファイルオフセットの現在の値を
.Fa pos
が参照するオブジェクトから設定したり、
.Fa pos
が参照するオブジェクトに保存したりします。
一部の
.Pq Tn UNIX 以外の
システムでは、
.Dq Fa fpos_t
オブジェクトが複合オブジェクトであるかもしれないので、
移植性を保ちながらテキストストリームの位置を
変更するためには、このルーチンに依るしかないこともあります。
.Sh 戻り値
.Fn rewind
関数は値を返しません。
.Pp
.Rv -std fgetpos fseek fseeko fsetpos
.Pp
成功して終了すると、
.Fn ftell
および
.Fn ftello
は現在のオフセットを返します。それ以外の場合は  \-1 が返され、
グローバル変数
.Va errno
が設定されてエラーを示します。
.Sh エラー
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EBADF
指定された
.Fa stream
が、シークできるストリームではありません。
.It Bq Er EINVAL
.Fn fseek
の
.Fa whence
引数が、
.Dv SEEK_SET ,
.Dv SEEK_END ,
.Dv SEEK_CUR
のどれでもありません。
.It Bq Er EOVERFLOW
.Fn ftell
を実行した結果のファイルのオフセットが
long 型のオブジェクトでは正しく表現できない値となりました。
.El
.Pp
.Fn fgetpos ,
.Fn fseek ,
.Fn fseeko ,
.Fn fsetpos ,
.Fn ftell ,
.Fn ftello
関数が失敗した時には、
ルーチン
.Xr fflush 3 ,
.Xr fstat 2 ,
.Xr lseek 2 ,
.Xr malloc 3
について示しているエラーが
.Va errno
に設定されていることもあります。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr lseek 2
.Sh 規格
.Fn fgetpos ,
.Fn fsetpos ,
.Fn fseek ,
.Fn ftell ,
.Fn rewind
関数は、
.St -isoC
に適合しています。
.Pp
.Fn fseeko
と
.Fn ftello
関数は、
.St -susv2
に適合しています。
.\"X kuma  1999-11-6
