.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1991, 1993
.\"     The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"     This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"     California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     From: @(#)gethostname.3 8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/gen/getbootfile.3,v 1.6.2.3 2001/12/14 18:33:51 ru Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd September 23, 1994
.Dt GETBOOTFILE 3
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm getbootfile
.Nd カーネル起動ファイル名を取得する
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.In paths.h
.Ft const char *
.Fn getbootfile void
.Sh 解説
.Fn getbootfile
関数は、現在のカーネルがロードされてきた元のファイルのフルパス名を取り出し、
そのフルパス名への静的ポインタを返します。
この情報の読み込み/書き込みインタフェースは、
.Xr sysctl 3
MIB 変数
.Dq Li kern.bootfile
を介して利用できます。
.Sh 戻り値
呼び出しが成功した場合はパス名を与える文字列が返されます。
失敗した場合はヌルポインタが返され、エラーコードがグローバルな位置にある
.Va errno
に入れられます。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr sysctl 3
.Sh バグ
起動時にカーネルへこの情報を渡すように、起動ブロックが修正されていない場合は、
実際の起動ファイル名の代わりに静的文字列
.Dq Pa /kernel
が返されます。
.Sh 歴史
.Fn getbootfile
関数呼び出しは
.Fx 2.0
ではじめて登場しました。
