.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1991, 1993
.\"     The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"     This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"     California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)gethostname.3       8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/gen/getdomainname.3,v 1.9.2.5 2001/12/14 18:33:51 ru Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd May 6, 1994
.Dt GETDOMAINNAME 3
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm getdomainname ,
.Nm setdomainname
.Nd 現在のホストのドメイン名を取得/設定する
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.In unistd.h
.Ft int
.Fn getdomainname "char *name" "int namelen"
.Ft int
.Fn setdomainname "const char *name" "int namelen"
.Sh 解説
.Fn getdomainname
は、以前
.Fn setdomainname
によって設定された現在のプロセッサの標準ドメイン名を返します。
パラメータ
.Fa namelen
は
.Fa name
配列のサイズを指定します。
不十分な空間が渡されない限り、返される値はヌル文字で終了します。
.Pp
.Fn setdomainname
は、
ホストマシンのドメイン名を長さ
.Fa namelen
の
.Fa name
に設定します。
この呼び出しはスーパユーザに限定されており、
通常はシステムを起動する時にだけ使用されます。
.Sh 戻り値
.Rv -std
.Sh エラー
これらの関数呼び出しによって、次のエラーが返る場合があります。
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EFAULT
.Fa name
または
.Fa namelen
パラメータで示されたアドレスが無効です。
.It Bq Er EPERM
呼び出し元がホスト名を設定しようとしましたが、
スーパユーザではありませんでした。
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr gethostid 3 ,
.Xr gethostname 3 ,
.Xr sysctl 3
.Sh バグ
ドメイン名は、(
.Ao Pa sys/param.h Ac
より)
.Dv MAXHOSTNAMELEN
に制限されており、これは現在 256 文字です。
.Sh 歴史
.Fn getdomainname
関数呼び出しは、
.Bx 4.2
ではじめて登場しました。
