.\" Copyright (c) 1995
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)kvm_getvfsbyname.3	8.3 (Berkeley) 5/4/95
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/gen/getvfsbyname.3,v 1.7.2.5 2001/12/14 18:33:51 ru Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd May 4, 1995
.Dt GETVFSBYNAME 3
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm getvfsbyname
.Nd ファイルシステムについての情報を取得
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.In sys/param.h
.In sys/mount.h
.Ft int
.Fn getvfsbyname "const char *name" "struct vfsconf *vfc"
.Sh 解説
.Fn getvfsbyname
関数は、カーネルに構成されているファイルシステムモジュール
に関する情報へのアクセスを提供します。
成功した場合は、要求されたファイルシステム
.Fa vfsconf
を、
.Fa vfc
の指す位置に返します。構造体
.Dq Li struct vfsconf
のフィールドは、次のように定義されます。
.Pp
.Bl -tag -compact -width vfc_refcount
.It vfc_name
ファイルシステムの名前
.It vfc_typenum
カーネルによって割り当てられたファイルシステムの
タイプ番号
.It vfc_refcount
ファイルシステムを使用するアクティブなポイントの番号
.It vfc_flags
.Xr getvfsent 3
に記述されるフラグビット
.El
.Sh 戻り値
.Rv -std getvfsbyname
.Sh エラー
次のエラーが報告される場合があります。
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EFAULT
.Fa vfc
ポインタに無効なアドレスが含まれています。
.It Bq Er ENOENT
ファイルシステムを指定する
.Fa name
が未知か、またはカーネルに構成されていません。
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr mount 2 ,
.Xr getvfsent 3 ,
.Xr sysctl 3 ,
.Xr mount 8 ,
.Xr sysctl 8
.Sh 歴史
.Fn getvfsbyname
関数は、
.Fx 2.0
ではじめて登場しました。
