.\" Copyright (c) 1985, 1991 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     from: @(#)ieee.3	6.4 (Berkeley) 5/6/91
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/msun/man/ieee.3,v 1.5.2.4 2001/08/17 15:43:08 ru Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd February 25, 1994
.Dt IEEE 3
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm copysign ,
.Nm copysignf ,
.Nm finite ,
.Nm finitef ,
.Nm ilogb ,
.Nm ilogbf ,
.Nm nextafter ,
.Nm nextafterf ,
.Nm remainder ,
.Nm remainderf ,
.Nm scalbn ,
.Nm scalbnf
.Nd IEEE 演算関数
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libm
.Sh 書式
.In math.h
.Ft double
.Fn copysign "double x" "double y"
.Ft float
.Fn copysignf "float x" "float y"
.Ft int
.Fn finite "double x"
.Ft int
.Fn finitef "float x"
.Ft int
.Fn ilogb "double x"
.Ft int
.Fn ilogbf "float x"
.Ft double
.Fn nextafter "double x" "double y"
.Ft float
.Fn nextafterf "float x" "float y"
.Ft double
.Fn remainder "double x" "double y"
.Ft float
.Fn remainderf "float x" "float y"
.Ft double
.Fn scalbn "double x" "int n"
.Ft float
.Fn scalbnf "float x" "int n"
.Sh 解説
これらの関数は、
.St -ieee754
によって要求または推奨されています。
.Pp
.Fn copysign
および
.Fn copysignf
は、
.Fa x
の符号を
.Fa y
の符号に置き換えて
.Fa x
を返します。
.Pp
\-\*(If \*(Lt
.Fa x
\*(Lt +\*(If
の時には、
.Fn finite
および
.Fn finitef
は、値 1 を返します。そうでない時 (
.Pf \\*(Ba Ns Fa x Ns \\*(Ba
= \*(If または
.Fa x
が \*(Na の時) には、0 が返されます。
.Pp
.Fn ilogb
および
.Fn ilogbf
は、
.Fa x
の
.Fa n
乗を整数型で返します。
.Fn ilogb \*(Pm\*(If
は
.Dv INT_MAX
を返し、
.Fn ilogb 0
は
.Dv INT_MIN
を返します。
.Pp
.Fn nextafter
および
.Fn nextafterf
は、次のマシン表示可能な数を
.Fa x
から
.Fa y
方向に返します。
.Pp
.Fn remainder
および
.Fn remainderf
は、剰余
.Fa r
:=
.Fa x
\-
.Fa n\(**y
を返します。このとき
.Fa n
は
.Bk -words
.Fa x Ns / Ns Fa y
.Ek
の正確な値に最も近い整数です。更に、
.Pf \\*(Ba Fa n
\-
.Sm off
.Fa x No / Fa y No \\*(Ba
.Sm on
=
1/2
ならば、
.Fa n
は偶数です。その結果、剰余は正確に計算され、
.Sm off
.Pf \\*(Ba Fa r No \\*(Ba
.Sm on
\*(Le
.Sm off
.Pf \\*(Ba Fa y No \\*(Ba/2
.Sm on
となります。しかし、
.Fn remainder x 0
および
.Fn remainder \*(If 0
は、\*(Na を生成する無効な演算です。
.Pp
.Fn scalbn
および
.Fn scalbnf
は、指数操作によって計算された
.Fa x Ns \(**(2** Ns Fa n )
を返します。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr math 3
.Sh 歴史
.Nm ieee
関数は、
.Bx 4.3
で登場しました。
.Sh 規格
.St -ieee754
