.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)initgroups.3	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/gen/initgroups.3,v 1.6.2.4 2001/12/14 18:33:51 ru Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd June 4, 1993
.Dt INITGROUPS 3
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm initgroups
.Nd グループアクセスリストの初期化
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.In unistd.h
.Ft int
.Fn initgroups "const char *name" "int basegid"
.Sh 解説
.Fn initgroups
関数は、
.Fa name
で指定されるユーザのために
.Xr getgrouplist 3
関数を使ってグループアクセスリストを計算します。その後、グループリストは
.Xr setgroups 2
を使い現行プロセス用に設定されます。
.Fa basegid
は自動的に
グループリストに含まれます。この値はパスワードファイルから
グループ番号として与えられるのが一般的です。
.Sh 戻り値
.Rv -std initgroups
.Sh エラー
.Fn initgroups
関数は、失敗することがあり、
.Xr setgroups 2
ライブラリ関数に対して指定されているエラーを
.Va errno
に設定することがあります。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr setgroups 2 ,
.Xr getgrouplist 3
.Sh 歴史
.Fn initgroups
関数は
.Bx 4.2
で取り入れられました。
.Sh バグ
.Fn initgroups
から呼び出される
.Fn getgrouplist
関数は
.Xr getgrent 3
に基づく
ルーチンを使用します。このルーチンの中から起動プログラムがどのルーチンを
使用しても、グループ構造は
.Fn initgroups
の呼び出し中に上書きされます。
