.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1996 Joerg Wunsch
.\"
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE DEVELOPERS ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE DEVELOPERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libutil/login_tty.3,v 1.5.2.3 2001/12/17 10:08:32 ru Exp %
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\" "
.Dd December 29, 1996
.Os
.Dt LOGIN_TTY 3
.Sh 名称
.Nm login_tty
.Nd 新規ログインセッションの tty 準備
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libutil
.Sh 書式
.In libutil.h
.Ft int
.Fn login_tty "int fd"
.Sh 解説
関数
.Fn login_tty
は、新規ログインセッションの端末を準備します。
.Fn login_tty
に渡されたファイル指示子
.Ar fd
は端末デバイス上で、読み込みや書き込みが可能である必要があります。
.Xr setsid 2
により新規セッションが割り当てられた後、
呼び出しプロセスの制御デバイスが作られます。この端末デバイスは更に、
呼び出しプロセスでの標準入力や出力、及び標準エラー出力になります。
.Sh 戻り値
.Fn Login_tty
は、呼び出しプロセスの制御デバイス
.Ar fd
が参照しているデバイスを作成できない場合、
-1 を返し、そうでない場合は 0 を返します。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr dup2 2 ,
.Xr ioctl 2 ,
.Xr setsid 2 ,
.Xr tty 4
