.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" Chris Torek and the American National Standards Committee X3,
.\" on Information Processing Systems.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)memcmp.3	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/string/memcmp.3,v 1.5.2.3 2001/12/14 18:33:59 ru Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd June 4, 1993
.Dt MEMCMP 3
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm memcmp
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Nd バイト列を比較する
.Sh 書式
.In string.h
.Ft int
.Fn memcmp "const void *b1" "const void *b2" "size_t len"
.Sh 解説
.Fn memcmp
関数は、バイト列
.Fa b1
をバイト列
.Fa b2
と比較します。
両方のバイト列は、
.Fa len
の長さのバイト列であるとみなされます。
.Sh 戻り値
.Fn memcmp
関数は、2 つのバイト列が一致する場合、0 を返します。
そうでない時は、最初に一致しなかった 2 つのバイト間の差
(unsigned char の値として扱われます。たとえば
.Sq Li \e\200
は 
.Sq Li \&\e0
よりも大きくなります。)
が返されます。
長さが 0 のバイト列は常に一致します。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr bcmp 3 ,
.Xr strcasecmp 3 ,
.Xr strcmp 3 ,
.Xr strcoll 3 ,
.Xr strxfrm 3
.Sh 規格
.Fn memcmp
関数は、
.St -isoC
に適合しています。
