.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1998 Jordan Hubbard
.\"
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE DEVELOPERS ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE DEVELOPERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libutil/property.3,v 1.8.2.7 2001/12/17 10:08:32 ru Exp %
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\" "
.Dd October 7, 1998
.Os
.Dt PROPERTIES 3
.Sh 名称
.Nm properties_read ,
.Nm propery_find ,
.Nm properties_free
.Nd 単純なプロパティリストを ASCII から作成する関数
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libutil
.Sh 書式
.In sys/types.h
.In libutil.h
.Ft properties
.Fn properties_read "int fd"
.Ft char *
.Fn property_find "properties list" "const char *name"
.Ft void
.Fn properties_free "properties list"
.Sh 解説
.Bd -literal
typedef struct _properties {
	struct _properties *next;
	char *name;
	char *value;
} *properties;
.Ed
.Pp
関数
.Fn properties_read
は、
.Fa fd
で渡されたファイル記述子から名前と値のペアを読み込み、
ファイルの内容が適切に分析されたものとして新しい
プロパティリストのヘッドを戻します。エラーが発生した場合は
NULL が返されます。
返される値は、最大長
.Dv PROPERTY_MAX_VALUE
バイトまでです。
.Pp
.Fn property_find
は、
.Fa name
という名前のプロパティの関連値ストリングを
戻します。このプロパティが見つからない場合は
NULL を戻します。
.Pp
.Fn properties_free
は、
.Fn properties_read
が戻した構造体が必要なくなった
場合にそれを解放します。
.Sh ファイル形式
ファイルの各プロパティは、
.Fa name = value
というフォーマットになっていると
想定されます。
.Fa name
は英数字文字列 (および `=' 以外の特殊文字) です。
.Fa value
は、改行文字で終わる、テキストの任意のストリングです。改行する
場合は、値全体を { } で囲む必要があります。# か ; で始まる行は
コメントとみなされて無視されます。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr auth_getval 3
.Sh バグ
単純です。
.Sh 作者
.An Jordan Hubbard
