.\" Copyright (c) 1997 Brian Cully <shmit@kublai.com>
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of the author nor the names of any co-contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY JOHN BIRRELL AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc_r/man/pthread_cond_init.3,v 1.6.2.6 2001/12/17 10:08:26 ru Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd July 28, 1998
.Dt PTHREAD_COND_INIT 3
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm pthread_cond_init
.Nd 条件変数の作成
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc_r
.Sh 書式
.In pthread.h
.Ft int
.Fn pthread_cond_init "pthread_cond_t *cond" "const pthread_condattr_t *attr"
.Sh 解説
.Fn pthread_cond_init
関数は、
.Fa attr
に指定された属性で新しい条件変数を作成します。
.Fa attr
が NULL の場合には、デフォルトの属性が使用されます。
.Sh 戻り値
問題がない場合は、
.Fn pthread_cond_init
関数は 0 を返し、
.Fa cond
に新しい条件変数の ID を入れます。
問題がある場合は、そのエラーを示すためにエラー番号が返されます。
.Sh エラー
.Fn pthread_cond_init
は以下の場合に失敗します。
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EINVAL
.Fa attr
によって指定された値が無効です。
.It Bq Er ENOMEM
プロセスが別の条件変数の作成のための十分なメモリを割り当てられません。
.It Bq Er EAGAIN
別の条件変数を作成するために一時的なリソースが不足しています。
.El
.Pp
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr pthread_cond_broadcast 3 ,
.Xr pthread_cond_destroy 3 ,
.Xr pthread_cond_signal 3 ,
.Xr pthread_cond_timedwait 3 ,
.Xr pthread_cond_wait 3
.Sh 規格
.Fn pthread_cond_init
は
.St -p1003.1-96
に適合しています。
