.\" Copyright (c) 1998 Alex Nash
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc_r/man/pthread_rwlock_destroy.3,v 1.3.2.3 2001/12/17 10:08:26 ru Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd August 4, 1998
.Dt PTHREAD_RWLOCK_DESTROY 3
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm pthread_rwlock_destroy
.Nd 読取り / 書込みロックの破壊
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc_r
.Sh 書式
.In pthread.h
.Ft int
.Fn pthread_rwlock_destroy "pthread_rwlock_t *lock"
.Sh 解説
.Fn pthread_rwlock_destroy
関数は、以前に
.Fn pthread_rwlock_init
で作成された読取り / 書込みロックを破壊するために使用されます。
.Sh 戻り値
問題がない場合は、
.Fn pthread_rwlock_destroy
関数は 0 を返します。
問題がある場合は、そのエラーを示すためにエラー番号が返されます。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr pthread_rwlock_init 3
.Sh 規格
.Fn pthread_rwlock_destroy
関数は、
.St -susv2
に適合しているはずです。
.Sh エラー
.Fn pthread_rwlock_destroy
関数は、以下の場合に失敗します。
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EPERM
呼び出し側が、その操作を実行するための権利を持っていません。
.El
.Pp
.Fn pthread_rwlock_destroy
関数は、以下の場合に失敗することがあります。
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EBUSY
.Fa lock
によって参照されているオブジェクトをロックされている間に、
破壊しようとしていることを、システムが検出しました。
.It Bq Er EINVAL
.Fa lock
によって指定された値が無効です。
.El
.Sh 歴史
.Fn pthread_rwlock_destroy
関数は、
.Fx 3.0
ではじめて登場しました。
