.\" Copyright (c) 1996 John Birrell <jb@cimlogic.com.au>.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by John Birrell.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the author nor the names of any co-contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY JOHN BIRRELL AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc_r/man/pthread_create.3,v 1.9.2.5 2001/12/17 10:08:26 ru Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd April 4, 1996
.Dt PTHREAD_CREATE 3
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm pthread_create
.Nd 新しいスレッドの作成
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc_r
.Sh 書式
.In pthread.h
.Ft int
.Fn pthread_create "pthread_t *thread" "const pthread_attr_t *attr" "void *(*start_routine)(void *)" "void *arg"
.Sh 解説
.Fn pthread_create
関数は、プロセス内に
.Fa attr
によって指定された属性をもつ新しいスレッドを作成するために使用されます。
.Fa attr
が
.Dv NULL
である場合には、デフォルトの属性が使用されます。
.Fa attr
によって指定された属性が後から更新された場合には、
スレッドの属性は変化しません。
問題なく完了すると、
.Fn pthread_create
は
.Fa thread
によって指定された場所に作成されたスレッドの ID を格納します。
.Pp
スレッドは、
.Fa arg
を唯一の引数として
.Fa start_routine
を実行することで作成されます。
.Fa start_routine
が戻った場合には、
.Fa start_routine
の戻り値を終了ステータスとして使用し、暗黙のうちに
.Fn pthread_exit
を呼び出したような効果があります。
.Fn main
を最初に実行したスレッドは、これとは異なることに注意してください。
そのスレッドが
.Fn main
から戻った時には、
.Fn main
の戻り値を終了ステータスとして使用し、暗黙のうちに
.Fn exit
を呼び出したような効果があります。
.Pp
新しいスレッドのシグナルの状態は、以下のように初期化されます。
.Bl -bullet -offset indent
.It
シグナルマスクは作成しているスレッドから継承されます。
.It
新しいスレッド用に保留しているシグナルのセットは空です。
.El
.Sh 戻り値
問題がない場合は、
.Fn pthread_create
関数は 0 を返します。
問題がある場合は、そのエラーを示すためにエラー番号が返されます。
.Sh エラー
.Fn pthread_create
は以下の場合に失敗します。
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EAGAIN
別のスレッドを作成するために必要なリソースがシステムに不足しています。
または、1 つのプロセス内の総スレッド数についてのシステムの
制限 [PTHREAD_THREADS_MAX] を超過しました。
.It Bq Er EINVAL
.Fa attr
によって指定された値が、有効ではありません。
.El
.Pp
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr fork 2 ,
.Xr pthread_cleanup_pop 3 ,
.Xr pthread_cleanup_push 3 ,
.Xr pthread_exit 3 ,
.Xr pthread_join 3
.Sh 規格
.Fn pthread_create
は
.St -p1003.1-96
に適合しています。
