.\" Copyright (c) 1998 Alex Nash
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc_r/man/pthread_rwlockattr_getpshared.3,v 1.4.2.4 2001/12/17 10:08:26 ru Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd March 22, 1999
.Dt PTHREAD_RWLOCKATTR_GETPSHARED 3
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm pthread_rwlockattr_getpshared
.Nd プロセス共有属性の取得
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc_r
.Sh 書式
.In pthread.h
.Ft int
.Fn pthread_rwlockattr_getpshared "const pthread_rwlockattr_t *attr" "int *pshared"
.Sh 解説
.Fn pthread_rwlockattr_getpshared
関数は、読取り / 書込みロックの属性オブジェクトのプロセス共有設定を
取得するために使用されます。
その設定は
.Fa pshared
を通して返され、以下の 2 つの内の 1 つになります。
.Bl -tag -width PTHREAD_PROCESS_PRIVATE
.It Dv PTHREAD_PROCESS_SHARED
読取り / 書込みロックが属するメモリにアクセスする全てのプロセスの
全てのスレッドは、ロックを操作できます。
.It Dv PTHREAD_PROCESS_PRIVATE
読取り / 書込みロックを初期化したスレッドと同じプロセスの中で作成された
スレッドのみが、ロックを操作できます。
これがデフォルト値です。
.El
.Sh 戻り値
問題がない場合は、
.Fn pthread_rwlockattr_getpshared
関数は 0 を返します。
問題がある場合は、そのエラーを示すためにエラー番号が返されます。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr pthread_rwlock_init 3 ,
.Xr pthread_rwlockattr_init 3 ,
.Xr pthread_rwlockattr_setpshared 3
.Sh 規格
.Fn pthread_rwlockattr_getpshared
関数は、
.St -susv2
に適合しているはずです。
.Sh エラー
.Fn pthread_rwlockattr_getpshared
は以下の場合に失敗します。
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EINVAL
.Fa attr
によって指定された値が無効です。
.El
.Sh 歴史
.Fn pthread_rwlockattr_getpshared
関数は、
.Fx 3.0
ではじめて登場しました。
