.\" Copyright (c) 1996 John Birrell <jb@cimlogic.com.au>.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by John Birrell.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the author nor the names of any co-contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY JOHN BIRRELL AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc_r/man/pthread_getspecific.3,v 1.6.2.4 2001/12/17 10:08:26 ru Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd April 4, 1996
.Dt PTHREAD_GETSPECIFIC 3
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm pthread_getspecific
.Nd スレッド固有のデータ値の取得
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc_r
.Sh 書式
.In pthread.h
.Ft void *
.Fn pthread_getspecific "pthread_key_t key"
.Sh 解説
.Fn pthread_getspecific
関数は、呼び出しているスレッドの代わりに、指定された
.Fa key
に現在結びつけられている値を返します。
.Pp
.Fn pthread_key_create
から入手したのではない
.Fa key
の値を伴った、または
.Fn pthread_key_delete
によって
.Fa key
が削除された後での、
.Fn pthread_getspecific
の呼び出しの結果は未定義です。
.Pp
.Fn pthread_getspecific
はスレッド固有のデータのデストラクタ関数から呼び出されることがあります。
.Sh 戻り値
.Fn pthread_getspecific
関数は、与えられた
.Fa key
に関連付けられたスレッド固有のデータ値を返します。
.Fa key
に関連付けられたスレッド固有のデータ値がない場合には、値 NULL が返されます。
.Sh エラー
ありません。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr pthread_key_create 3 ,
.Xr pthread_key_delete 3 ,
.Xr pthread_setspecific 3
.Sh 規格
.Fn pthread_getspecific
は
.St -p1003.1-96
に適合しています。
