.\" Copyright (c) 1986, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)sleep.3	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/gen/sleep.3,v 1.12.2.3 2001/12/14 18:33:51 ru Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd February 13, 1998
.Dt SLEEP 3
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm sleep
.Nd 秒単位で測定される間隔だけプロセスの実行を中断する
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.In unistd.h
.Ft unsigned int
.Fn sleep "unsigned int seconds"
.Sh 解説
.Fn sleep
関数は
.Fa seconds
秒が経過するか、またはシグナルがプロセスに到着した結果
シグナル処理関数を起動するかプロセスを終了するまで、
呼び出しプロセスの実行を中断します。
システムの稼働状況によっては、プロセスの中断している時間が
不確定となって長びく可能性があります。
.Pp
この関数は、
.Xr nanosleep 2
を使用して、
.Fa seconds
秒経つか、またはシグナルが到着するまで中断するという方法で
実装されています。したがって、この実装においては、
プロセスが中断することによってプロセスタイマの状態が
影響を受けることはなく、SIGALRM に対する特別な処理も
ありません。
.Sh 戻り値
要求された時間が経過したために
.Fn sleep
関数が復帰した場合、返される値は
0 です。シグナルが送られたために
.Fn sleep
関数が復帰した場合、返される値は
プロセスが中断していなかった時間量 (秒単位)
になります (これは要求された時間から実際に中断していた
時間を減算したものです)。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr nanosleep 2 ,
.Xr usleep 3
.Sh 規格
.Fn sleep
関数は
.St -p1003.1-90
に適合しています。
.Sh 歴史
.Fn sleep
関数は
.At v7
で登場しました。
