.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" Chris Torek and the American National Standards Committee X3,
.\" on Information Processing Systems.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)strxfrm.3	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/string/strxfrm.3,v 1.11.2.3 2001/12/14 18:33:59 ru Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd June 4, 1993
.Dt STRXFRM 3
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm strxfrm
.Nd 文字列をロケールにしたがって変換する
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.In string.h
.Fn strxfrm "char *dst" "const char *src" "size_t n"
.Sh 解説
.Fn strxfrm
関数は、
.Fa src
により示されたヌル文字で終了する文字列を、
現在のロケール照合 (locale collation) がある場合には、
それに従って変換し、
.\"then copies the transformed string
.\"into
.\".Fa dst .
変換した文字列を
.Fa dst
にコピーします。
.\"Not more than
.\".Fa n
.\"characters are copied into
.\".Fa dst ,
.\"including the terminating null character added.
.Fa n
を越えない文字数が
.Fa dst
にヌル文字を付加してコピーされます。
.\"If
.\".Fa n
.\"is set to 0
.\"(it helps to determine an actual size needed
.\"for transformation),
.\".Fa dst
.\"is permitted to be a NULL pointer.
もし
.Fa n
に 0 がセットされた場合 (この場合変換に必要となる実サイズを決定するのを助けます)、
.Fa dst
には NULL ポインタにする事が許されます。
.Pp
.Fn strxfrm
の後で
.Fn strcmp
を使って 2 つの文字列を比較することは、
元の 2 つの文字列を
.Fn strcoll
を使って比較することと同じになります。
.Sh 戻り値
.\"Upon successful completion,
.\".Fn strxfrm
.\"returns the length of the transformed string not including
.\"the terminating null character.
.\"If this value is
.\".Fa n
.\"or more, the contents of
.\".Fa dst
.\"are indeterminate.
完全に成功した場合、
.Fn strxfrm
は終端のヌル文字を含まない変換された文字列の長さを返します。
もしこの値が
.Fa n
と同じかそれより大きい場合、
.Fa dst
の内容は不定です。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr setlocale 3 ,
.Xr strcmp 3 ,
.Xr strcoll 3
.Sh 規格
.Fn strxfrm
関数は、
.St -isoC
に適合しています。
