.\" Copyright (c) 1989, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" the American National Standards Committee X3, on Information
.\" Processing Systems.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)time.3	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/gen/time.3,v 1.5.2.5 2001/12/14 18:33:51 ru Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd June 4, 1993
.Dt TIME 3
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm time
.Nd 日時を取得
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.In time.h
.Ft time_t
.Fn time "time_t *tloc"
.Sh 解説
.Fn time
関数は、協定世界時の 1970 年 1 月 1 日 0 時 0 分 0 秒から
数えた時間を秒単位で返します。
.Pp
時間の値のコピーは、ポインタ
.Fa tloc
によって示される領域に保存されます。
.Fa tloc
が NULL ポインタである場合は、値は保存されません。
.Pp
操作が正常終了すると、
.Fn time
関数は時間の値を返します。
そうでない場合は、
.Pq Po Vt time_t Pc \-1
が返され、エラーを示すためにグローバル変数
.Va errno
が設定されます。
.Sh エラー
.Va errno
には、次のエラーコードが設定されます。
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EFAULT
引数アドレスが不正なメモリを参照しました。
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr gettimeofday 2 ,
.Xr ctime 3
.Sh 歴史
.Fn time
関数は、
.At v6
で登場しました。
