.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)valloc.3	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/gen/valloc.3,v 1.4.2.4 2001/12/14 18:33:51 ru Exp %
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd June 4, 1993
.Dt VALLOC 3
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm valloc
.Nd 整列メモリ割り振り関数
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.In unistd.h
.Ft void *
.Fn valloc "size_t size"
.Sh 解説
.Bf -symbolic
.Fn valloc
は、ページサイズのより大きな割り振りを整列する現在バージョンの
.Xr malloc 3
関数によって置き換えられています。
.Ef
.Pp
.Fn valloc
関数は、ページ境界に整列された
.Fa size
バイトを割り振ります。
この関数は、やや大きな要求事項とともに
.Xr malloc 3
関数を呼び出し、割り振られたブロックの真の始まりを保存し、
適切に整列されたポインタを返すことによって行われます。
.Sh 戻り値
.Fn valloc
関数は、成功した場合は割り振られた空間へのポインタを
返します。それ以外の場合は、null ポインタを返します。
.Sh 歴史
.Fn valloc
関数は、
.Bx 3.0
で登場しました。
.Pp
.Sh バグ
.Em vfree
関数は実装されていません。
