Web site hooks for the release notes (-*- text -*-).
$FreeBSD$


To enable building the release notes with the web site, edit Makefile
in this directory and set the RELNOTES variable, then set
BUILD_RELNOTES when you build the web site as you would, say,
ENGLISH_ONLY.  The RELNOTES variable a list; the first word is the
"name" of these release notes, and the second word is the path to the
root of the release notes set.  The semantics are similar to those of
MLINKS in bsd.man.mk.  It would be nice if the list ($RELNOTES) could
be set on the command line a la BUILD_RELNOTES instead of having to be
changed in the Makefile, but that would require modifications to
web.site.mk to teach it to propagate the RELNOTES variable when
running make for SUBDIRs.

For example, if you want to build the release notes for -CURRENT and
4-STABLE, and they are checked out in /usr/relnotes/current and
/usr/relnotes/4stable, respectively, you might use the following:

	RELNOTES=	CURRENT /usr/relnotes/current
	RELNOTES+=	4STABLE /usr/relnotes/4stable

Note that you shouldn't simply use 'STABLE' as a name, since there may
be multiple -STABLE branches.

Obviously if you're going to do this, you're going to have to make
sure the release notes are updated along with the rest of the www/ and
doc/ hierarchies.

It would be nice if all the mirrors used the same "names"; freefall
would be the ideal place to set the precedent, but unfortunately it's
not building the release notes yet.  If you're a mirror that wants to
set this up, please send e-mail to the freebsd-doc list asking what
you should use, and be prepared to change when freefall catches up.

If you have any questions, please e-mail the freebsd-doc list.
