.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1999 Chris Costello
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/sys/kldfirstmod.2,v 1.15 2002/12/18 09:22:30 ru Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd March 3, 1999
.Dt KLDFIRSTMOD 2
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm kldfirstmod
.Nd "指定された kld ファイルから最初のモジュール ID を返す"
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.In sys/param.h
.In sys/linker.h
.Ft int
.Fn kldfirstmod "int fileid"
.Sh 解説
.Fn kldfirstmod
システムコールは、
.Fa fileid
によって参照された最初のモジュールに関連するモジュール ID を返します。
.Sh 戻り値
.Fn kldfirstmod
は、
.Fa fileid
によって参照される最初のモジュールの ID を返し、
参照がない場合は 0 を返します。
.Sh エラー
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er ENOENT
.Fa fileid
によって参照された kld ファイルが見つかりませんでした。
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr kldfind 2 ,
.Xr kldload 2 ,
.Xr kldnext 2 ,
.Xr kldstat 2 ,
.Xr kldsym 2 ,
.Xr kldunload 2 ,
.Xr modfind 2 ,
.Xr modfnext 2 ,
.Xr modnext 2 ,
.Xr modstat 2 ,
.Xr kld 4 ,
.Xr kldstat 8
.Sh 歴史
.Nm kld
インタフェースは
.Fx 3.0
ではじめて登場しました。
