.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)mkdir.2	8.2 (Berkeley) 12/11/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/sys/mkdir.2,v 1.19 2002/12/19 09:40:25 ru Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd December 11, 1993
.Dt MKDIR 2
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm mkdir
.Nd ディレクトリファイルを作成する
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.In sys/types.h
.In sys/stat.h
.Ft int
.Fn mkdir "const char *path" "mode_t mode"
.Sh 解説
ディレクトリ
.Fa path
が、
.Fa mode
による指定に呼び出しプロセスの
.Xr umask 2
で制約を加えたアクセス許可で作成されます。
.Pp
ディレクトリの所有者 ID は、プロセスの実効ユーザ ID に設定されます。
ディレクトリのグループ ID は、そのディレクトリが作成された親ディレクトリの
グループ ID に設定されます。
.Sh 戻り値
.Rv -std mkdir
.Sh エラー
.Fn mkdir
システムコールは次の場合、処理に失敗してディレクトリは作成されません:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er ENOTDIR
パスの構成要素中にディレクトリ以外のものが含まれています。
.It Bq Er ENAMETOOLONG
パス名の構成要素が 255 文字を越えているか、
またはパス名全体が 1023 文字を越えています。
.It Bq Er ENOENT
パスの構成要素が存在しません。
.It Bq Er EACCES
指定されたパスには、検索が許可されていないディレクトリが含まれています。
または、作成するディレクトリの親ディレクトリに対する書込み権限が
拒否されました。
.It Bq Er ELOOP
パス名を変換するときに検出されたシンボリックリンクが多すぎます。
.It Bq Er EROFS
指定されたファイルは読取り専用ファイルシステム上にあります。
.It Bq Er EEXIST
指定のファイルがすでに存在します。
.It Bq Er ENOSPC
新しいディレクトリが作成できません。
そのディレクトリを作る容量がファイルシステムに残っていません。
.It Bq Er ENOSPC
ディレクトリを作成するファイルシステム上に未使用の
inode がありません。
.It Bq Er EDQUOT
新しいディレクトリが作成できません。
ディレクトリを作るファイルシステム上の
ディスクブロックのユーザのクォータが枯渇しました。
.It Bq Er EDQUOT
ディレクトリを作成中のファイルシステム上のユーザの inode のクォータが
枯渇しました。
.It Bq Er EIO
ディレクトリエントリの作成中、あるいは inode を割り当て中に入出力エラーが
発生しました。
.It Bq Er EIO
ファイルシステムに読み書きしている間に入出力エラーが発生しました。
.It Bq Er EFAULT
.Fa path
引数が、プロセスに割り当てられたアドレス空間の範囲外を指しています。
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr chmod 2 ,
.Xr stat 2 ,
.Xr umask 2
.Sh 規格
.Fn mkdir
システムコールは
.St -p1003.1-90
に適合しています。
