.\"	$NetBSD: mlockall.2,v 1.11 2003/04/16 13:34:54 wiz Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1999 The NetBSD Foundation, Inc.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to The NetBSD Foundation
.\" by Jason R. Thorpe of the Numerical Aerospace Simulation Facility,
.\" NASA Ames Research Center.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"        This product includes software developed by the NetBSD
.\"        Foundation, Inc. and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of The NetBSD Foundation nor the names of its
.\"    contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived
.\"    from this software without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE NETBSD FOUNDATION, INC. AND CONTRIBUTORS
.\" ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED
.\" TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
.\" PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE FOUNDATION OR CONTRIBUTORS
.\" BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
.\" INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
.\" CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
.\" POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/sys/mlockall.2,v 1.2 2004/07/03 23:14:34 ru Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd June 12, 1999
.Dt MLOCKALL 2
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm mlockall ,
.Nm munlockall
.Nd プロセスのアドレス空間のロック (アンロック)
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.In sys/mman.h
.Ft int
.Fn mlockall "int flags"
.Ft int
.Fn munlockall "void"
.Sh 解説
.Fn mlockall
システムコールはプロセスのアドレス空間に関連付けられた物理ページを、
そのアドレス空間がアンロックされるまで、またはプロセスが終了するまで、
または他のプログラムイメージを exec するまでの間、メモリ内にロックします。
.Pp
以下のフラグは
.Fn mlockall
の振舞いに影響します:
.Bl -tag -width ".Dv MCL_CURRENT"
.It Dv MCL_CURRENT
プロセスのアドレス空間に現在マップされている全てのページをロックします。
.It Dv MCL_FUTURE
将来プロセスのアドレス空間にマップされる全てのページを、
マッピングが確立する時点でロックします。
これらのマッピングがリソースの制限の超過を引き起こす場合には、
将来のマッピングの失敗を引き起こすかもしれないことに、注意してください。
.El
.Pp
物理メモリは潜在的に欠乏しているリソースであるため、プロセスは
どのくらいの量をロックできるのかを制限されています。
1 つのプロセスは最低でもシステム全体に渡る
.Dq wired pages
リミットをロック可能で、プロセス当たりの
.Dv RLIMIT_MEMLOCK
リソース制限をロック可能です。
.Pp
.Fn munlockall
呼び出しはプロセスのアドレス空間の中の全てのロックされたメモリ領域を
アンロックします。
.Fn munlockall
呼び出し後にマップされる全ての領域は、ロックされません。
.Sh 戻り値
戻り値 0 は、呼び出しが成功し、その範囲内の全てのページが
ロックまたはアンロックされたことを示します。
戻り値 \-1 は、エラーが発生し、その範囲内の全てのページのロック状態が
変更されないまま残されていることを示します。
この場合、グローバル変数
.Va errno
がそのエラーを示すために設定されます。
.Sh エラー
.Fn mlockall
は以下の場合に失敗します:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EINVAL
.Fa flags
引数が 0 であるか、または実装されていないフラグを含んでいます。
.It Bq Er ENOMEM
指定された範囲のロックが、システムまたはプロセス当たりのロック可能な
メモリの制限を越えます。
.It Bq Er EAGAIN
プロセスのアドレス空間にマップされたメモリの一部または全てが、
呼び出しが実行された時にロックできませんでした。
.It Bq Er EPERM
呼び出し側のプログラムが、要求された操作を行なうための適切な
権限を持っていません。
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr mincore 2 ,
.Xr mlock 2 ,
.Xr mmap 2 ,
.Xr munmap 2 ,
.Xr setrlimit 2
.Sh 規格
.Fn mlockall
および
.Fn munlockall
関数は
.St -p1003.1-2001
に適合していると思われます。
.Sh 歴史
.Fn mlockall
および
.Fn munlockall
関数は
.Fx 5.1
ではじめて登場しました。
.Fx 5.1 .
.Sh バグ
プロセス当たりのリソースの制限は、ロックされた仮想メモリの量について
制限されます。
その一方、システム全体での制限はロックされた物理ページの
数についての制限です。
そのために、同一の物理ページに対する 2 つの別個のロックされた
マッピングを持つプロセスは、プロセス当たりの制限に対しては 2 ページとして
カウントし、システム制限ではただ 1 つのページとしてカウントします。
