.\" Copyright (c) 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)mprotect.2	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/9/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/sys/mprotect.2,v 1.17 2003/02/23 01:47:48 ru Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd June 9, 1993
.Dt MPROTECT 2
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm mprotect
.Nd ページの保護属性を制御する
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.In sys/mman.h
.Ft int
.Fn mprotect "const void *addr" "size_t len" "int prot"
.Sh 解説
.Fn mprotect
システムコールは指定のページが保護属性
.Fa prot
を持つように変更します。
すべての場合においてページ単位での保護属性を保証するわけではありません。
保護属性変更の細かさはリージョン全体と同じ大きさかもしれません。
リージョンは
.Vt "struct vm_map_entry"
の start (開始) と end (終了) のアドレスで定義される仮想アドレス空間です。
.Pp
現在、以下の OR をとって組み合わせることが可能な保護ビットが知られています。
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width ".Dv PROT_WRITE" -compact
.It Dv PROT_NONE
全く保護しません。
.It Dv PROT_READ
ページは読取り可能です。
.It Dv PROT_WRITE
ページは書込み可能です。
.It Dv PROT_EXEC
ページは実行可能です。
.El
.Sh 戻り値
.Rv -std mprotect
.Sh エラー
.Fn mprotect
システムコールは次の場合に処理を失敗します:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EINVAL
.Fa addr
引数と
.Fa len
引数で指定している仮想アドレス範囲は有効ではありません。
.It Bq Er EACCES
呼び出しプロセスは
.Fa prot
引数によって指定される値に保護属性を変更することを許可されていません。
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr madvise 2 ,
.Xr mincore 2 ,
.Xr msync 2 ,
.Xr munmap 2
.Sh 歴史
.Fn mprotect
システムコールは
.Bx 4.4
ではじめて登場しました。
