.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2003 Tom Rhodes
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/sys/ntp_gettime.2,v 1.4 2004/07/02 19:07:30 ru Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd June 21,2003
.Dt NTP_GETTIME 2
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm ntp_gettime
.Nd NTP ユーザアプリケーションインタフェース
.Sh 書式
.In sys/timex.h
.Ft int
.Fn ntp_gettime "struct ntptimeval *ntv"
.Sh 解説
.Fn ntp_gettime
によって返される時刻は、
.Vt timespec
構造体に格納されますが、マイクロ秒 (秒とマイクロ秒) または
ナノ秒 (秒とナノ秒) のどちらかの形式であることができます。
使用中の特有の形式は、
.Fn ntp_adjtime
システムコールによって返される status ワードの
.Dv STA_NANO
ビットによって決定されます。
.Fn ntp_gettime
は以下のメンバを持つ
.Vt ntptimeval
構造体へのポインタを引数として持ちます:
.Bd -literal
struct ntptimeval {
	struct timespec time;	/* 現在の時刻 (ns) (ro) */
	long maxerror;		/* 最大誤差 (us) (ro) */
	long esterror;		/* 推定誤差 (us) (ro) */
	long tai;		/* TAI-UTC オフセット */
	int time_state;		/* 時間状態 */
};
.Ed
.Pp
これらは以下のように理解されます:
.Bl -tag -width ".Va time_state"
.It Va time
現在の時刻です (読取り専用)。
.It Va maxerror
マイクロ秒単位での最大誤差です (読取り専用)。
.It Va esterror
マイクロ秒単位での推定誤差です (読取り専用)。
.It Va tai
TAI および UTC の時間スケールの間の秒単位のオフセットです。
このオフセットは 1 年毎に 2 回発行され、
TAI (閏秒がない) と UTC (閏秒がある) との間の整数秒差です。
.Xr ntpd 8
またはその他のエージェントがこの値を管理します。
値 0 は不明を意味します。
このマニュアルページの日付では、このオフセットは 32 秒です。
.It Va time_state
現在時刻の状態です。
.El
.Sh 戻り値
.Rv -std ntp_gettime
.Pp
起こりうるクロックの状態は以下のとおりです:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -compact -width ".Dv TIME_ERROR"
.It Dv TIME_OK
全てが OK で、閏秒の警告もありません。
.It Dv TIME_INS
正の閏秒の警告です。
この日の最後の 23:59:59 の後に追加の 1 秒が挿入されます。
.It Dv TIME_DEL
負の閏秒の警告です。
この日の最後の 23:59:59 はスキップされます。
.It Dv TIME_OOP
閏秒の経過中です。
.It Dv TIME_WAIT
閏秒が発生しました。
.It Dv TIME_ERROR
クロックが同期していません。
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr ntp_adjtime 2 ,
.Xr ntpd 8
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Pa http://www.bipm.fr/enus/5_Scientific/c_time/time_1.html
.It Pa http://www.boulder.nist.gov/timefreq/general/faq.htm
.It Pa ftp://time.nist.gov/pub/leap-seconds.list
.El
.Sh 作者
このマニュアルページは
.An Tom Rhodes Aq trhodes@FreeBSD.org
が書きました。
