.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)socketpair.2	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/sys/socketpair.2,v 1.15 2002/12/18 09:22:31 ru Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd June 4, 1993
.Dt SOCKETPAIR 2
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm socketpair
.Nd 接続されたソケットのペアの作成
.Sh ライブラリ
.Lb libc
.Sh 書式
.In sys/types.h
.In sys/socket.h
.Ft int
.Fn socketpair "int d" "int type" "int protocol" "int *sv"
.Sh 解説
.Fn socketpair
システムコールは、任意に指定された
.Fa protocol
を使用し、指定された
.Fa type
の、名前を持たない、接続されたソケットのペアを、指定されたドメイン
.Fa d
に作成します。
このとき、ペアは指定できません。
新しいソケットの参照に使用された記述子は、
.Fa sv Ns [0]
と
.Fa sv Ns [1]
に戻されます。
2 つのソケットは区別できません。
.Sh 戻り値
.Rv -std socketpair
.Sh エラー
以下のような場合、処理を失敗します:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EMFILE
プロセスで使用されている記述子が多すぎます。
.It Bq Er EAFNOSUPPORT
指定されたアドレスファミリが、この機械でサポートされていません。
.It Bq Er EPROTONOSUPPORT
指定したプロトコルが、この機械でサポートされていません。
.It Bq Er EOPNOTSUPP
指定したプロトコルでの、ソケットペアの作成がサポートされていません。
.It Bq Er EFAULT
アドレス
.Fa sv
が、プロセスアドレス空間の有効な部分を指定していません。
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr pipe 2 ,
.Xr read 2 ,
.Xr write 2
.Sh バグ
この呼び出しは、現在のところ
.Ux
ドメインのみで実装されています。
.Sh 歴史
.Fn socketpair
システムコールは
.Bx 4.2
で登場しました。
