.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)udp.4	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/5/93
.\" jpman %Id: udp.4,v 1.3 1999/03/11 15:31:24 horikawa Stab %
.\"	%Id: udp.4,v 1.6 1997/03/19 19:47:43 bde Exp %
.\"
.Dd June 5, 1993
.Dt UDP 4
.Os BSD 4.2
.Sh 名称
.Nm udp
.Nd インターネットユーザデータグラムプロトコル
.Sh 書式
.Fd #include <sys/types.h>
.Fd #include <sys/socket.h>
.Fd #include <netinet/in.h>
.Ft int
.Fn socket AF_INET SOCK_DGRAM 0
.Sh 解説
.Tn UDP
は単純で信頼性のないデータグラムプロトコルであり、
インターネットプロトコルファミリにおいて
.Dv SOCK_DGRAM
として抽象化された機能をサポートするものとして使用されます。
.Tn UDP
ソケットはコネクションレス型であり、普通
.Xr sendto 2
及び
.Xr recvfrom 2
コールと共に使用されます。
ただし、後で送られるパケットの宛先を固定する目的で
.Xr connect 2
コールも使用できます (その場合には普通
.Xr recv 2
または
.Xr read 2
、及び
.Xr send 2
または
.Xr write 2
システムコールと共に使用されます)。
.Pp
.Tn UDP
のアドレスフォーマットは
.Tn TCP
で使用されるものと同一です。
特に
.Tn UDP
は標準のインターネットアドレスフォーマットに加え、
ポート識別子を提供します。
.Tn UDP
ポート空間は
.Tn TCP
ポート空間とは分離していることに注意してください
(すなわち、
.Tn UDP
ポートは
.Tn TCP
ポートと
.Dq 接続できません
)。
加えて、ブロードキャストパケットは予約された
.Dq ブロードキャストアドレス
を用いて送信されます
(下位層のネットワークがこれをサポートしているものと仮定しています)。
ブロードキャストアドレスはネットワークインタフェースに依存します。
.Pp
.Tn IP
トランスポート層におけるオプションは
.Tn UDP
で使用できます。本件については
.Xr ip 4
を参照してください。
.Sh 診断
ソケット操作の失敗の際には次のエラーのうちの一つが返されます:
.Bl -tag -width [EADDRNOTAVAIL]
.It Bq Er EISCONN
既にコネクションが確立されているソケットに対し
さらにコネクションを確立させようとした時、
あるいは既にソケットのコネクションが確立されているのに、
宛先アドレスを指定してデータグラムを送信しようとした時
.It Bq Er ENOTCONN
ソケットのコネクションが確立されていない場合に、
宛先アドレスの指定をせずデータグラムの送信を行おうとした時
.It Bq Er ENOBUFS
内部的なデータ構造のためのメモリが不足した時
.It Bq Er EADDRINUSE
既に割り当てられているポートに対しソケットを作成しようとした時
.It Bq Er EADDRNOTAVAIL
対応したネットワークインタフェースが存在しない
ネットワークアドレスを指定し、ソケットを作成しようとした時
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr getsockopt 2 ,
.Xr recv 2 ,
.Xr send 2 ,
.Xr socket 2 ,
.Xr inet 4 ,
.Xr intro 4 ,
.Xr ip 4
.Sh 歴史
.Nm
プロトコルは
.Bx 4.2
から登場しました。
