.\"	$NetBSD: asa.1,v 1.11 2002/02/08 01:36:18 ross Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1993 Winning Strategies, Inc.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"      This product includes software developed by Winning Strategies, Inc.
.\" 4. The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote products
.\"    derived from this software without specific prior written permission
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/asa/asa.1,v 1.3 2002/05/30 13:33:59 ru Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd May 9, 2002
.Dt ASA 1
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm asa
.Nd 行送り制御文字を解釈する
.Sh 書式
.Nm
.Op Ar
.Sh 解説
.Nm
ユーティリティはファイルを順に読み込み、
.Tn FORTRAN
の行送り制御文字をラインプリンタ制御シーケンスに変換して標準出力へ書き出します。
.Pp
各行の最初の文字は行送り制御文字として解釈されます。
以下の文字が下記のように解釈されます:
.Bl -tag -width ".Aq space"
.It Aq 空白
変更せずにその行の残りを出力します。
.It 0
その行の残りを出力する前に、
.Aq 改行
文字を出力します。
.It 1
その行の残りを出力する前に、
.Aq フォームフィード
文字を出力します。
.It \&+
その行の残りを出力する前に、
前の行の
.Aq 改行
を
.Aq 復帰文字
で置き換えます。
.El
.Pp
上記以外の文字で始まる行は、
.Aq 空白
で始まっているものとして扱われます。
.Sh 診断
.Ex -std
.Sh 使用例
.Tn FORTRAN
プログラムの出力を含むファイルを見るためには:
.Pp
.Dl "asa file"
.Pp
.Tn FORTRAN
プログラムの出力を整形して、ラインプリンタにリダイレクトするには:
.Pp
.Dl "a.out | asa | lpr"
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr f77 1
.Sh 規格
.Nm
ユーティリティは
.St -p1003.1-2001
に適合しています。
.Sh 作者
.An J.T. Conklin ,
Winning Strategies, Inc.
