.\" Copyright (c) 1989, 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)cat.1	8.3 (Berkeley) 5/2/95
.\" %FreeBSD: src/bin/cat/cat.1,v 1.22 2004/04/06 20:06:44 markm Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd March 21, 2004
.Dt CAT 1
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm cat
.Nd ファイルの連結、表示を行う
.Sh 書式
.Nm cat
.Op Fl benstuv
.Op Ar
.Sh 解説
.Nm
はファイルを連続的に読み込み、標準出力に書き出します。
.Ar file
が単一のダッシュ
.Pq Sq \&-
または存在しない場合、
.Nm
は標準入力から読み込みます。
.Ar file
が
.Ux
ドメインソケットの場合、
.Nm
はこれに接続し、
.Dv EOF
まで読み取りを行います。
これは、
.Xr inetd 8
で利用可能な
.Ux
ドメインのバインディング機能を補うものです。
.Pp
オプションは以下のとおりです。
.Bl -tag -width width
.It Fl b
非空白行に、1 から開始する番号を付けます。
.It Fl e
表示できない文字を目に見える形で表示し (
.Fl v
オプション参照)、各行の最後に
.Pq Ql \&$
を表示します。
.It Fl n
行番号を付け加えます。行番号は 1 から始まります。
.It Fl s
連続した空行を圧縮します。連続した空行は 1 行の空行
として出力されます。
.It Fl t
表示できない文字を目に見える形で表示し (
.Fl v
オプション参照)、タブを
.Ql ^I
で表示します。
.It Fl u
出力のバッファリングを行いません。
.It Fl v
表示できない文字を目に見える形で表示します。
control-X は
.Ql ^X
、削除文字 (8進数で 0177) は
.Ql ^?
と表示されます。
.Tn ASCII
文字でないもの ( 最上位ビットが立っているもの )
は、
.Ql M-
(メタ) のあとに残りの7ビットで表されるキャラクタを
表示します。
.El
.Sh 診断
.Ex -std
.Sh 使用例
コマンド
.Bd -literal -offset indent
.Ic cat file1
.Ed
.Pp
は、
.Ar file1
の内容を標準出力へ表示します。
.Pp
コマンド
.Bd -literal -offset indent
.Ic cat file1 file2 > file3
.Ed
.Pp
は、
.Ar file1
と
.Ar file2
の内容を
.Ar file3
へ順番に表示します。
.Ar file3
が既に存在する場合にはこれを切り詰めます。
リダイレクトについての更なる情報は、シェル (すなわち
.Xr sh 1 )
のマニュアルページを参照してください。
.Pp
コマンド
.Bd -literal -offset indent
.Ic cat file1 - file2 - file3
.Ed
.Pp
は、
.Ar file1
の内容を表示し、標準入力から
.Dv EOF
.Pq Sq ^D
文字を受け取るまでに受け取ったデータを表示し、
.Ar file2
の内容を表示し、再度標準入力から読取った内容を出力し、
最後に
.Ar file3
の内容を出力します。
標準入力がファイルを参照している場合、
コマンドライン上の 2 番目のダッシュは効果がなくなることに注意してください。
最初の
.Ql \&-
において、ファイルの内容全体が、
.Nm
によって既に読み取られて表示されてしまったからです。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr head 1 ,
.Xr more 1 ,
.Xr pr 1 ,
.Xr sh 1 ,
.Xr tail 1 ,
.Xr vis 1 ,
.Xr zcat 1 ,
.Xr setbuf 3
.Rs
.%A Rob Pike
.%T "UNIX Style, or cat -v Considered Harmful"
.%J "USENIX Summer Conference Proceedings"
.%D 1983
.Re
.Sh 規格
.Nm
ユーティリティは
.St -p1003.2-92
仕様に準拠しています。
.Pp
フラグ
.Op Fl benstv
はこの仕様に対する拡張です。
.Sh 歴史
.Nm
ユーティリティは
.At v1
から登場しました。
.An Dennis Ritchie
がマニュアルの初版をデザインし、執筆しました。
.Sh バグ
シェルの出力リダイレクトのメカニズムが原因で、
.Dq Li cat file1 file2 > file1
は file1 に最初に入っているデータを消去してしまいます!
.Pp
.Nm
ユーティリティは、
.Fl t
や
.Fl v
オプションが有効な場合、マルチバイト文字を認識しません。
