.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1994 University of Maryland
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and its
.\" documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that
.\" the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
.\" documentation, and that the name of U.M. not be used in advertising or
.\" publicity pertaining to distribution of the software without specific,
.\" written prior permission.  U.M. makes no representations about the
.\" suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is"
.\" without express or implied warranty.
.\"
.\" U.M. DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING ALL
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS, IN NO EVENT SHALL U.M.
.\" BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR
.\" IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Author: James da Silva, Systems Design and Analysis Group
.\"			   Computer Science Department
.\"			   University of Maryland at College Park
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.sbin/crunch/crunchide/crunchide.1,v 1.12 2004/07/02 23:12:40 ru Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd June 14, 1994
.Dt CRUNCHIDE 1
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm crunchide
.Nd プログラムをクランチしてまとめる際に、シンボル名を ld から隠蔽する
.Sh 書式
.Nm crunchide
.Op Fl f Ar keep-list-file
.Op Fl k Ar keep-symbol
.Op Ar object-file ...
.Sh 解説
.Nm
ユーティリティは
.Ar object-file
の大域シンボルを隠蔽し、
続くリンカ
.Xr ld 1
の実行でそれらが無視されるようにします。
.Fl k Ar keep-symbol
オプションおよび
.Fl f Ar keep-list-file
オプションにより、
いくつかのシンボルを見える状態のままにしておくことができます。
ファイル
.Ar keep-list-file
は、見える状態にしておくシンボルのリストです。
このファイルにはシンボルを 1 行にひとつずつ記述します。
.Ar keep-symbol
もしくは
.Ar keep-list-file
において指定する名前は、C における名前です。例えば C の関数
.Dq foo
を見えるようにするためには、オプション
.Dq -k foo
を使用します。
.Pp
.Nm
ユーティリティは
.Xr crunchgen 1
とともに用いられるプログラムとして設計されています。
.Xr crunchgen 1
は複数のコンポーネントプログラムからクランチバイナリを作成する
処理を自動化するプログラムです。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr crunchgen 1 ,
.Xr ld 1
.Sh 作者
.An -nosplit
.Nm
ユーティリティは
.An James da Silva Aq jds@cs.umd.edu
によって作成されました。
.Pp
Copyright (c) 1994 University of Maryland.
All Rights Reserved.
.Pp
.An Chris Demetriou Aq cgd@netbsd.org
が
.Nm
を再構成し、複数のオブジェクト形式をサポートし、
ELF オブジェクトのサポートと ECOFF オブジェクトの認識を追加しました。
.Pp
Copyright (c) 1997
.An Christopher G. Demetriou .
All Rights Reserved.
