.\"-
.\" Copyright (c) 2000, 2001, 2002 Robert N. M. Watson
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This software was developed by Robert Watson for the TrustedBSD Project.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" %FreeBSD: src/bin/getfacl/getfacl.1,v 1.8 2004/05/16 21:34:31 ru Exp %
.\"
.\" Developed by the TrustedBSD Project.
.\" Support for POSIX.1e access control lists.
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd December 30, 2002
.Dt GETFACL 1
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm getfacl
.Nd ACL 情報の取得
.Sh 書式
.Nm
.Op Fl dh
.Op Ar
.Sh 解説
.Nm
ユーティリティは、
指定されたファイルに関する、
裁量的なアクセス制御情報を標準出力へ表示します。
指定した
.Ar file
に対する
.Eq { } Va _POSIX_ACL_EXTENDED
の効果が無いことを
.Xr getconf 1
ユーティリティが示す場合、
標準の裁量的なアクセスパーミッションが、
必須の ACL エントリのみを持つ ACL として解釈されます。
.Pp
次のオプションが使用可能です:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl d
アクセス ACL の代りに、ディレクトリのデフォルト ACL に対し、
操作が適用されます。
デフォルト ACL を
.Ar file
に関連付けられない場合、エラーが生成されます。
.It Fl h
操作対象がシンボリックリンクの場合、
リンクを辿らずに、リンボリックリンク自身の ACL を返します。
.El
.Pp
次のオペランドが使用可能です:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Ar file
ACL 取得対象ファイルのパス名。
.Ar file
が指定されない場合や
.Ar file
として
.Fl
が指定される場合、
.Nm
は、
各パス名が 1 個の改行文字で終端されたパス名リストを標準入力から読み取ります。
.El
.Sh 使用例
.Dl getfacl /
.Pp
ディレクトリ
.Pa /
の ACL を取得します。
.Pp
.Dl getfacl -d /
.Pp
ディレクトリ
.Pa /
のデフォルト ACL が存在すれば、それを取得します。
.Sh 診断
.Ex -std
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr setfacl 1 ,
.Xr acl 3 ,
.Xr getextattr 8 ,
.Xr setextattr 8 ,
.Xr acl 9 ,
.Xr extattr 9
.Sh 規格
.Nm
ユーティリティは
.Tn IEEE
Std 1003.2c に従っていることが期待されます。
.Sh 歴史
拡張属性およびアクセス制御リストのサポートは、
.Tn TrustedBSD
Project の一部として開発され、
.Fx 5.0
で導入されました。
.Sh 作者
.An Robert N M Watson
