.\" Copyright (c) 2000  Peter Wemm <peter@FreeBSD.org>
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHORS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" %FreeBSD: src/bin/kenv/kenv.1,v 1.10 2003/01/20 17:56:25 obrien Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd July 8, 2000
.Dt KENV 1
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm kenv
.Nd カーネル環境をダンプまたは修正
.Sh 書式
.Nm
.Op Fl h
.Nm
.Ar variable Ns Op = Ns Ar value
.Nm
.Fl u
.Ar variable
.Sh 解説
.Nm
ユーティリティは、引数無しで起動された場合、カーネルの環境をダンプします。
.Fl h
オプションが指定された場合、カーネルのプローブヒント情報のみ出力します。
オプションの
.Ar variable
名を指定した場合、
.Nm
は、その変数の値のみを出力します。
.Fl u
オプションが指定された場合、
.Nm
は指定された環境変数を削除します。
環境変数の後にオプションの
.Ar value
が続いた場合、
.Nm
はその環境変数をこの値に設定します。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr kenv 2 ,
.Xr loader 8
.Sh 歴史
.Nm
ユーティリティは、
.Fx 4.1.1
で登場しました。
