.\" Copyright (c) 2000 - 2002 Kungliga Tekniska HÖgskolan
.\" (Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm, Sweden).
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. Neither the name of the Institute nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE INSTITUTE AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE INSTITUTE OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" %Id: klist.1,v 1.12 2003/02/16 21:10:26 lha Exp %
.\"
.\" WORD: credential: 資格証明
.\" WORD: principal: プリンシパル
.\" WORD: realm: レルム
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd July 8, 2000
.Dt KLIST 1
.Os HEIMDAL
.Sh 名称
.Nm klist
.Nd Kerberos 資格証明のリスト表示
.Sh 書式
.Nm
.Oo Fl c Ar cache \*(Ba Xo
.Fl -cache= Ns Ar cache
.Xc
.Oc
.Op Fl s | Fl t | Fl -test
.Op Fl 4 | Fl -v4
.Op Fl T | Fl -tokens
.Op Fl 5 | Fl -v5
.Op Fl v | Fl -verbose
.Op Fl f
.Op Fl -version
.Op Fl -help
.Sh 解説
.Nm
は資格証明キャッシュ (チケットファイルの別名でも知られる)
から現在のチケットを読み込み表示します。
.\" also known as = 〜の別名でも知られる、別名〜、別称〜、またの名を、一名〜という
.\" 原文: crential は credential の誤り。
.Pp
サポートされているオプションは次の通りです:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Xo
.Fl c Ar cache ,
.Fl -cache= Ns Ar cache
.Xc
リスト表示する資格証明キャッシュ
.It Xo
.Fl s ,
.Fl t ,
.Fl -test
.Xc
資格証明キャッシュにおけるユーザのローカルレルムに対する
アクティブで有効な TGT であることをテストします。
.It Xo
.Fl 4 ,
.Fl -v4
.Xc
v4 チケットを表示する
.It Xo
.Fl T ,
.Fl -tokens
.Xc
AFS トークンを表示する
.It Xo
.Fl 5 ,
.Fl -v5
.Xc
v5 資格証明キャッシュを表示する (これがデフォルトです)
.It Fl f
チケットフラグを以下の省略形で含めます。
各文字は以下にあげる特定のフラグを意味します。
.\" 原文: charcted は character の typo 
.Bl -tag -width  XXX -compact -offset indent
.It F
転送可能 (forwardable)
.It f
転送された (forwarded)
.It P
代理可能 (proxiable)
.It p
代理された (proxied)
.It D
先付け日付 (postdate-able)
.It d
先付け日付された (postdated)
.It R
更新可能 (renewable)
.It I
初回 (initial)
.It i
無効 (invalid)
.It A
事前認証された (pre-authenticated)
.It H
ハードウェア認証された (訳註: 要求した; hardware authenticated)
.El
.Pp
この情報は
.Fl -verbose
オプションでも、より冗長な形で出力されます。
.It Xo
.Fl v ,
.Fl -verbose
.Xc
冗長な出力。
出力可能な情報全てを含めます:
.Bl -tag -width XXXX -offset indent
.It Server (サーバ)
チケットがどのプリンシパルのためのものであるか
.\" 原文: princial は principal の誤り。
.It Ticket etype (チケット etype)
チケット中で使用されている暗号化タイプ。
存在する場合は鍵バージョンが後に続きます
.\" use は used の typo
.It Session key (セッションキー)
チケットの暗号化タイプと異なっているなら、セッションキーの暗号化タイプ
.It Auth time (認証時刻)
認証交換が行われた時刻
.\" take place = 行われる、起こる
.It Start time (開始時刻)
このチケットが有効になる時刻 
(auth time と異なる場合にのみ表示されます)
.\" this tickets は this ticket の typo
.It End time (終了時刻)
チケットの有効期限が切れる時刻。
既に期限が切れている場合はその旨注記されます
.It Renew till (更新まで)
このプリンシパルから得たチケットのうち、もっとも遅くまで有効な時刻
.It Ticket flags (チケットフラグ)
チケットに設定されているフラグ
.It Addresses (アドレス)
このチケットが有効となるアドレスのセット
.El
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr kdestroy 1 ,
.Xr kinit 1
