.\" Copyright (c) 2000 - 2001 Kungliga Tekniska HÖgskolan
.\" (Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm, Sweden).
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. Neither the name of the Institute nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE INSTITUTE AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE INSTITUTE OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" %Id: krb5-config.1,v 1.5 2003/02/16 21:10:32 lha Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd November 30, 2000
.Dt KRB5-CONFIG 1
.Os HEIMDAL
.Sh 名称
.Nm krb5-config
.Nd "Heimdal ライブラリに対するコードのリンク方法を取得する"
.Sh 書式
.Nm
.Op Fl -prefix Ns Op = Ns Ar dir
.Op Fl -exec-prefix Ns Op = Ns Ar dir
.Op Fl -libs
.Op Fl -cflags
.Op Ar libraries
.Sh 解説
.Nm
は、Heimdal によってインストールされたライブラリに対して
プログラムをコンパイルしてリンクするために、
どのような特別のフラグを使用したらよいかを
アプリケーションプログラマに伝えます。
.Pp
サポートされているオプションは次の通りです:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl -prefix Ns Op = Ns Ar dir
.Ar dir
が指定されない場合はプレフィックスを表示し、そうでなければプレフィックスを
.Ar dir
に設定します。
.It Fl -exec-prefix Ns Op = Ns Ar dir
.Ar dir
が指定されないなら、実行(exec-)プレフィックスを表示し、
そうでなければ、実行プレフィックスを
.Ar dir
に設定します。
.It Fl -libs
リンク対象とすべきライブラリのセットを出力します。
.It Fl -cflags
Heimdal ライブラリを使用する際に C コンパイラに与える
フラグのセットを出力します。
.El
.Pp
デフォルトでは、
.Nm
は、krb5 API を使用する典型的なプログラムによって使用される
フラグとライブラリのセットを出力します。
また、ユーザは使用するライブラリを指定することができ、
サポートされているライブラリは次の通りです:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It krb5
(デフォルト)
.It gssapi
krb5 gssapi メカニズムを使用します
.It kadm-client
クライアント側の kadmin ライブラリを使用します
.It kadm-server
サーバ側の kadmin ライブラリを使用します
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr cc 1
.Sh 歴史
.Nm
は Heimdal 0.3d で登場しました。
