.\"-
.\" Copyright (c) 2004 Dag-Erling Coidan Smorgrav
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote products
.\"    derived from this software without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/logins/logins.1,v 1.2 2004/03/06 23:36:41 des Exp %
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd March 6, 2004
.Dt LOGINS 1
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm logins
.Nd アカウント情報を表示する
.Sh 書式
.Nm
.Op Fl admopstux
.Op Fl g Ar groups
.Op Fl l Ar logins
.Sh 解説
.Nm
ユーティリティは、ユーザおよびシステムアカウントの情報を表示します。
.Pp
以下のオプションを使用可能です:
.Bl -tag -width ".Fl g Ar groups"
.It Fl a
各アカウントについて、
パスワード変更およびアカウントの有効期限に関する情報を表示します。
.It Fl d
重複した UID を持つアカウントを選択します。
.It Fl g Ar groups
指定したグループに属するアカウントを選択します。
複数のグループ名を指定する場合は、
グループ名をコンマで区切る必要があります。
.It Fl l Ar logins
指定したログイン名とマッチするアカウントを選択します。
複数のログイン名を指定する場合は、ログイン名をコンマで区切る必要があります。
.It Fl m
セカンダリグループに関する情報を表示します。
.It Fl o
各アカウントの情報について、
フィールドをコロンで区切った形にして、一アカウントにつき一行で表示します。
.It Fl p
パスワードのないアカウントを選択します。
.It Fl s
システムアカウントを選択します。
現在のところ、システムアカウントとは、UID が 1000 未満のアカウントおよび
.Dq Li nobody
アカウント (UID 65534) として定義されています。
.It Fl t
選択されたアカウントを、UID ではなく名前でソートします。
.It Fl u
ユーザアカウントを選択します。
現在のところ、ユーザアカウントとは、UID が 1000 以上のアカウントのうち、
.Dq Li nobody
アカウント (UID 65534) を除いたものとして定義されています。
.It Fl x
各アカウントについて、ホームディレクトリとシェルに関する情報を表示します。
.El
.Pp
選択オプションが複数指定された場合、
指定された選択条件のいずれかにマッチするアカウントがすべて表示されます。
.Pp
選択オプションが指定されなかった場合、すべてのアカウントが表示されます。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr getgrent 3 ,
.Xr getpwent 3 ,
.Xr group 5 ,
.Xr passwd 5 ,
.Xr pw 8
.Sh 歴史
.Nm
ユーティリティは
.Fx 4.10
ではじめて登場しました。
.Sh 作者
.Nm
ユーティリティは、
他のオペレーティングシステムの類似のユーティリティをもとに、
.An Dag-Erling Sm\(/orgrav Aq des@FreeBSD.org
によって書かれました。
