.\" Copyright (c) 1987, 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)mesg.1	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/6/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/mesg/mesg.1,v 1.11 2003/06/09 19:32:02 charnier Exp %
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd May 5, 2002
.Dt MESG 1
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm mesg
.Nd 他ユーザからのメッセージを表示する (表示しない)
.Sh 書式
.Nm
.Op Cm n | Cm y
.Sh 解説
.Nm
は、他ユーザからの端末へのメッセージの書き込みを許すかどうかを
決めるためのユーティリティです。
デフォルトでは書き込みは許可されているので、
.Xr talk 1
や
.Xr write 1
などのプログラムを使って端末にメッセージを送ることができます。
.Pp
標準入力、標準出力、標準エラーの順番で、
これら結び付けられている端末デバイスのうちの最初のものが影響を受けます。
.Pp
オプションは以下のとおりです。
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Cm n
メッセージを表示しません。
.It Cm y
メッセージを表示します。
.El
.Pp
引数なしで起動された場合、
.Nm
は現在のメッセージ表示の許可・不許可についての設定を、
標準出力に出力します。
.Sh 使用例
現在の端末に対する他ユーザからのメッセージを禁止します:
.Pp
.Dl "mesg n"
.Pp
.Pa ttyp1
への他ユーザからのメッセージを許可します
(この端末からもあなたがログインしていると仮定しています):
.Pp
.Dl "mesg y </dev/ttyp1"
.Sh 診断
.Nm
は以下のうちのいずれかを戻り値として返します。
.Bl -tag -width flag -compact -offset indent
.Pp
.It Li "\ 0"
メッセージを表示します。
.It Li "\ 1"
メッセージを表示しません。
.It Li ">1"
エラーが発生しました。
.El
.Sh 互換性
以前のバージョンの
.Nm
ユーティリティは、メッセージ状態を標準エラー出力に表示し、
最初に標準入力および出力のデバイスを試す前に標準エラーに
結び付けられている端末に影響を与えていました。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr biff 1 ,
.Xr talk 1 ,
.Xr wall 1 ,
.Xr write 1
.Sh 規格
.Nm
ユーティリティは
.St -p1003.1-2001
に適合しています。
.Sh 歴史
.Nm
は
.At v1
から登場しました。
