.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)nice.1	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/6/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/nice/nice.1,v 1.24 2002/12/27 12:15:35 schweikh Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd June 6, 1993
.Dt NICE 1
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm nice
.Nd スケジュールの優先度を下げてユーティリティを実行する
.Sh 書式
.Nm nice
.Op Fl n Ar increment
.Ar utility
.Op Ar argument ...
.Sh 解説
.Nm
ユーティリティは優先度を変更して
.Ar utility
を実行します。
.Dq nice
値は指定された
.Ar increment
だけ増やされるか、またはデフォルト値の 10 が増されます。
プロセスの nice 値を減らすと、スケジュール優先度が向上します。
.Pp
ユーティリティを高スケジュール優先度で実行する目的で、
スーパユーザは負の増加値を指定可能です。
.Pp
.Nm
は、
.Ar command
の実行優先度として、
.Ar number
が
.Nm
の優先度に対して相対的に指定されたものとします。
現在のプロセスの優先度よりも高い優先度はスーパユーザのみ要求可能です。
.Pp
シェルによっては、本ユーティリティと似たまたは同じ、組み込みの
.Nm
コマンドを提供しているものがあります。
.Xr builtin 1
マニュアルページを参照してください。
.Sh 環境変数
.Ev PATH
環境変数は、名前に
.Ql /
が 1 個も含まれない場合、指定された
.Ar utility
を見付けるために使用されます。
.Sh 使用例
シェルの優先度が 0 の時、ユーティリティ
.Sq date
を、優先度 5 にて実行します:
.Pp
.Dl "nice -n 5 date"
.Pp
シェルの優先度が 0 であり、スーパユーザの場合、ユーティリティ
.Sq date
を優先度 -19 にて実行します:
.Pp
.Dl "nice -n 16 nice -n -35 date"
.Sh 診断
.Ar utility
が起動されると、
.Nm
の終了ステータスは
.Ar utility
の終了ステータスになります。
.Pp
終了ステータス 126 は
.Ar utility
が見付かったものの実行不可だったことを示します。
終了ステータス 127 は
.Ar utility
が見付からなかったことを示します。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr builtin 1 ,
.Xr csh 1 ,
.Xr idprio 1 ,
.Xr rtprio 1 ,
.Xr getpriority 2 ,
.Xr setpriority 2 ,
.Xr renice 8
.Sh 互換性
伝統的な
.Fl Ns Ar increment
オプションは価値が低下していますが、まだサポートされています。
.Sh 規格
.Nm
ユーティリティは
.St -p1003.1-2001
に適合しています。
.Sh 歴史
.Nm
ユーティリティは
.At v6
で追加されました。
