.\" Copyright (c) 2001, 2002 Chuck Rouillard
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote
.\"    products derived from this software without specific prior written
.\"    permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY
.\" DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/pathchk/pathchk.1,v 1.3 2002/12/12 17:26:01 ru Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd May 21, 2002
.Dt PATHCHK 1
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm pathchk
.Nd パス名のチェック
.Sh 書式
.Nm
.Op Fl p
.Ar pathname ...
.Sh 解説
.Nm
ユーティリティは、指定された各
.Ar pathname
引数が、正当であるか、移植性があるか、チェックします。
.Pp
次のような各引数に対し、診断メッセージが書かれます:
.Bl -bullet
.It
.Dv PATH_MAX
バイトより長い。
.It
.Dv NAME_MAX
バイトより長いコンポーネントがある
.Dv ( NAME_MAX
の値は、下位のファイルシステムに依存します)。
.It
検索できないディレクトリコンポーネントがある。
.El
.Pp
.Ar pathname
引数に、存在しないコンポーネントがあったとしても、
その名前が作成可能であれば、エラーとはみなされません。
.Pp
オプションは次の通りです:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl p
指定された
.Ar pathname
引数に対し、移植性のチェックをします。
次のような各引数に対し、診断メッセージが書かれます:
.Bl -bullet
.It
.Dv _POSIX_PATH_MAX
.Pq 255
バイトより長い。
.It
.Dv _POSIX_NAME_MAX
.Pq 14
バイトより長いコンポーネントがある。
.It
移植性のあるファイルシステム文字集合 (アルファベット、数字、
.Ql \&. ,
.Ql \&- ,
.Ql _ )
に含まれない文字を含む。
コンポーネントはハイフン
.Pq Ql \&-
文字で開始してはなりません。
.El
.El
.Sh 使用例
現在のディレクトリのファイル名が、他の
.Tn POSIX
システムに移植できるかをチェックします:
.Pp
.Dl "find . -print | xargs pathchk -p"
.Sh 診断
.Ex -std
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr getconf 1 ,
.Xr pathconf 2 ,
.Xr stat 2
.Sh 規格
.Nm
ユーティリティは
.St -p1003.1-2001
に適合しています。
.Sh 歴史
.Nm
ユーティリティは
.Fx 5.0
に登場しました。
