.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc.
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)printenv.1	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/6/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/printenv/printenv.1,v 1.18 2003/06/01 06:29:47 tjr Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd May 12, 2003
.Dt PRINTENV 1
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm printenv
.Nd 環境変数を表示する
.Sh 書式
.Nm
.Op Ar name
.Sh 解説
.Nm
ユーティリティは、
環境変数の名前と値を、1 行あたりに 1 組の名前と値の形式で表示します。
.Ar name
が指定されている場合は、その環境変数の値を表示します。
.Pp
シェルによっては、本ユーティリティに似ているまたは同等の、組み込み
.Nm
コマンドを提供しています。
.Xr builtin 1
マニュアルページを参照してください。
.Sh 診断
.Ex -std printenv
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr csh 1 ,
.Xr env 1 ,
.Xr sh 1 ,
.Xr environ 7
.Sh 規格
.Nm
ユーティリティは、以前の
.Bx
および
.Fx
リリースとの互換性のために提供されているもので、
規格で指定されたものではありません。
.Nm
の機能は
.Xr echo 1
および
.Xr env 1
のユーティリティと重複しています。
.Sh 歴史
.Nm
コマンドは
.Bx 3.0
から登場しました。
