.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2003 Maksim Yevmenkin <m_evmenkin@yahoo.com>
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" $Id: rfcomm_sppd.1,v 1.1 2006-03-05 13:35:43 metal Exp $
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/bluetooth/rfcomm_sppd/rfcomm_sppd.1,v 1.4.2.1 2004/10/03 16:14:43 emax Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd April 26, 2003
.Dt RFCOMM_SPPD 1
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm rfcomm_sppd
.Nd RFCOMM Serial Port Profile デーモン
.Sh 書式
.Nm
.Op Fl bh
.Fl a Ar address
.Fl c Ar channel
.Op Fl t Ar tty
.Sh 解説
.Nm
ユーティリティはシリアルポートプロファイルデーモンです。
これは、指定された
.Ar address
のサーバと
.Ar channel
に対して RFCOMM 接続をオープンします。
接続がいったん確立されると、
.Nm
ユーティリティは標準入力/標準出力 (stdin/stdout) を通して、または
.Fl t
オプションが指定されたなら、
.Xr pty 4
インタフェースを通してサーバのリモートシリアルポートへのアクセスを提供します。
.Pp
.Nm
ユーティリティはマスタとスレーブ仮想端末の両方をオープンします。
これは
.Nm
が終了するまで RFCOMM 接続がオープンしたままとなることを保証するため
に行われます。
マスタ仮想端末から受け取ったデータは、RFCOMM 接続を通して送られます。
RFCOMM 接続から受け取ったデータは、マスタ仮想端末に書き込みます。
アプリケーション側は、スレーブ仮想端末をオープンし、
まるでそれが標準のシリアルポート上であるかのように操作します。
.Pp
オプションは次の通りです:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl a Ar address
これはリモート RFCOMM サーバのアドレスを指定する必須オプションです。
アドレスは BD_ADDR か名前として指定することができます。
名前が指定されたなら、
.Nm
ユーティリティは、
.Xr bt_gethostbyname 3
を通して名前の解決を試みます。
.It Fl b
制御端末をデタッチします。
すなわち、バックグラウンドで実行します。
.It Fl c Ar channel
このオプションは接続する RFCOMM チャネルを指定します。
チャネルは Serial Port サービスを提供していなければなりません。
チャネルが指定されなかったなら、
.Nm
ユーティリティはサーバから サービス発見プロトコル (Service Discovery Protocol)
を使って RFCOMM チャネルを取得しようとします。
.It Fl h
使用法のメッセージを表示して、終了します。
.It Fl t Ar tty
スレーブ疑似 tty 名。
設定されていなければ、標準入力/標準出力 (stdin/stdout)
が使用されます。
.Fl b
オプションが指定されたなら、このオプションが必要です。
.El
.Sh 使用例
.Dl "rfcomm_sppd -a 00:01:02:03:04:05 -c 1 -t /dev/ttyp1"
.Pp
これは
.Nm
ユーティリティを開始し、
.Li 00:01:02:03:04:05
とチャネル
.Li 1
でサーバに RFCOMM 接続をオープンします。
接続がいったん確立されると、
.Pa /dev/ttyp1
を使用してサーバ上のリモートシリアルポートと通信できるようになります。
.Sh 関連ファイル
.Bl -tag -width ".Pa /dev/tty[p-sP-S][0-9a-v]" -compact
.It Pa /dev/pty[p-sP-S][0-9a-v]
マスタ仮想端末
.It Pa /dev/tty[p-sP-S][0-9a-v]
スレーブ仮想端末
.El
.Sh 診断
.Ex -std
.Sh バグ
見つけたら、報告してください。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr bluetooth 3 ,
.Xr ng_btsocket 4 ,
.Xr pty 4 ,
.Xr rfcomm_pppd 8
.Sh 作者
.An Maksim Yevmenkin Aq m_evmenkin@yahoo.com
