.ig
Copyright (C) 1989-2000, 2001, 2003 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of
this manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice
are preserved on all copies.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
permission notice identical to this one.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this
manual into another language, under the above conditions for modified
versions, except that this permission notice may be included in
translations approved by the Free Software Foundation instead of in
the original English.
..
.\" $FreeBSD$
.TH SOELIM 1 "1 May 2003" "Groff Version 1.19"
.
.SH 名称
soelim \- groff への入力に含まれる .so リクエストを解釈する
.SH 書式
.B soelim
[
.B \-Crtv
]
[
.BI \-I dir
]
[
.IR files \|.\|.\|.\|
]
.
.PP
.B \-I
コマンドラインオプションとそのパラメータの間に
空白を入れることが可能です。
.
.SH 解説
.B soelim
は
.I files
を読み込み、
.IP
.BI .so\  file
.LP
という形式の行を、
.IR file
の中身で置き換えます。
.B so
を含むファイルが前処理を必要とする場合に有用です。
通常
.B soelim
は
.BR groff
の
.B \-s
オプションといっしょに呼び出されます。
.
.PP
先頭のドットと `s' と `o' の間に
空白があってはいけないことに注意してください。
そうしないと、
.B groff
だけが
.B .so
リクエストを解釈します。(そして
.B soelim
はそれを無視します。)
.
.SH オプション
.TP
.B \-C
.B .so
に空白や改行以外の文字が続くことを
許可します。
.
.TP
.BI \-I dir
このオプションは (コマンドラインと
.B \&.so
行の両方で) ファイルを探すディレクトリを
指定するために使われます。
カレントディレクトリは常に最初に検索されます。
このオプションが複数回指定されると
指定された順番にディレクトリがサーチされます。
絶対パスを使って指定されたファイルでは
ディレクトリの検索は行われません。
.
.TP
.B \-r
\&.lf リクエストを追加しません (非 groff ファイルでは通常使用してください)。
.
.TP
.B \-t
\&.lf リクエストを出力しませんが、
Tex コマンド行 (`%' から開始する) を出力して、
現在のファイルおよび行番号を与えます。
.
.TP
.B \-v
バージョン番号を表示します。
.
.SH 関連項目
.BR groff (1)
.\" Local Variables:
.\" mode: nroff
.\" End:
