.\" Copyright (c) 1989, 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)tput.1	8.2 (Berkeley) 3/19/94
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/tput/tput.1,v 1.15 2004/07/02 22:22:32 ru Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd June 15, 2002
.Dt TPUT 1
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm tput ,
.Nm clear
.Nd 端末属性を利用するためのインタフェース
.Sh 書式
.Nm tput
.Op Fl T Ar term
.Ar attribute ...
.Nm clear
.Sh 解説
.Nm
ユーティリティは、
端末の属性情報を取り出して、ユーザやシェルアプリケーションから
利用できるようにします。
.Nm clear
ユーティリティとして起動されたときには、
.Dl tput clear
が実行されたように画面がクリアされます。
.Nm
のオプションは、次の通りです。
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl T
.Xr termcap 5
データベースの中の端末名 (
.Dq vt100
や
.Dq xterm
) を指定します。
端末名が指定されない場合には、環境変数
.Dq Ev TERM
の内容を参照します。
.El
.Pp
.Ar attribute
で指定する端末属性が文字列型の場合、
.Nm
ユーティリティはその文字列を出力します。
端末属性が整数型の場合、その数値を出力します。
どちらでもなければ
.Nm
は余分な動作をせずに、
端末が属性を持っているなら 0、そうでないなら 1 を
終了コードにして終了します。
.Pp
.Ar attribute
が文字列型で引数を取る場合 (例えばカーソル移動 : termcap の
.Dq cm
シーケンス) には、引数は属性名 (attribute) のすぐ後ろから取られます。
.Pp
次の属性は、特別な意味を持っています。
.Bl -tag -width Ar
.It Cm clear
画面をクリアします (
.Xr termcap 5
の
.Dq cl
シーケンス)
.It Cm init
端末を初期化します (
.Xr termcap 5
の
.Dq is
シーケンス)
.It Cm longname
ユーザの端末タイプの詳細名称を表示します。
.It Cm reset
端末をリセットする (
.Xr termcap 5
の
.Dq rs
シーケンス)
.El
.Sh 診断
.Nm
の終了コードは、次の通りです:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It 0
最後の属性引数
.Ar attribute
が文字列型か整数型の場合、
その値が標準出力に成功裏に書き込まれました。
引数が論理型の場合、端末はこの属性を持ちます。
.It 1
端末は、指定された論理型属性を持ちません。
.It 2
使い方が誤っています。
.It 3
指定された端末型に関して、情報がありません。
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr termcap 5 ,
.Xr terminfo 5
.Sh 規格
.Nm
ユーティリティは
.St -p1003.1-2001
に適合しています。
.Sh 歴史
.Nm
ユーティリティは、
.Bx 4.4
から登場しました。
.Sh バグ
.Nm
ユーティリティは属性毎の正しい型を知っているわけではありません。
.Pp
termcap エントリによっては
.Sq %
のみからなる
.Sq %
を持つことに依存しているものがあります。
現在、有効なタイプ宣言を持たないものに関しては警告を発っします。
これらの警告は標準エラー出力へと送られます。
