.\" $NetBSD: usbhidctl.1,v 1.8 1999/05/11 21:03:58 augustss Exp $
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/usbhidctl/usbhidctl.1,v 1.4 2004/01/04 16:34:16 charnier Exp %
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1998 The NetBSD Foundation, Inc.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to The NetBSD Foundation
.\" by Lennart Augustsson.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"        This product includes software developed by the NetBSD
.\"        Foundation, Inc. and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of The NetBSD Foundation nor the names of its
.\"    contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived
.\"    from this software without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE NETBSD FOUNDATION, INC. AND CONTRIBUTORS
.\" ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED
.\" TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
.\" PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE FOUNDATION OR CONTRIBUTORS
.\" BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
.\" INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
.\" CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
.\" POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd July 12, 1998
.Dt USBHIDCTL 1
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm usbhidctl
.Nd USB HID 機器の操作
.Sh 書式
.Nm
.Op Fl a
.Fl f Ar device
.Op Fl l
.Op Fl n
.Op Fl r
.Op Fl t Ar table
.Op Fl v
.Op Ar item ...
.Sh 解説
.Nm
ユーティリティを使うと、
USB HID (Human Interface Device) の状態のダンプをとることができます。
指定された
.Ar item
それぞれが表示されます。
.Pp
以下のオプションが利用できます。
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl a
すべての item を表示します。
.It Fl f Ar device
操作するデバイスのパスを指定します。
.It Fl l
デバイスのデータが変化するたびに、繰り返しダンプを取ります。
.It Fl n
機器名の表示を抑制します。
.It Fl r
レポート記述子のダンプを取ります。
.It Fl t Ar table
HID 使用法テーブルファイルのパスを指定します。 
.It Fl v
詳細な表示をします。
.El
.Sh 関連ファイル
.Pa /usr/share/misc/usb_hid_usages
デフォルトの HID 使用法テーブル
.Sh バグ
.Nm
ユーティリティでは機器の出力と特長を見ることも設定することもできません。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr usbhid 3 ,
.Xr uhid 4 ,
.Xr usb 4
.Sh 歴史
.Nm
コマンドは
.Nx 1.4
で登場しました。
