.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)what.1	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/6/93
.\"
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/what/what.1,v 1.16 2004/07/02 22:22:34 ru Exp %
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd June 6, 1993
.Dt WHAT 1
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm what
.Nd ファイルを構成するオブジェクトモジュールのバージョンを表示する
.Sh 書式
.Nm
.Op Fl s
.Op Ar
.Sh 解説
.Nm
ユーティリティは、
指定された
.Ar file
を読み込み、SCCS (source code control
system) が挿入した
.Dq \&@(#)
形式のシーケンスを検索し、このマークのあと
に挿入されている文字列を NUL 文字か、改行か、ダブルクォート (") か、
.Dq \&>
文字かバックスラッシュが現れるまで表示します。
.Pp
次のオプションを使用可能です:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl s
最初にマッチしたときに検索を停止します。
.El
.Sh 診断
なにかがマッチしたら終了値は 0 となり、そうでない場合は 1 となります。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr ident 1 ,
.Xr strings 1
.Sh 規格
.Nm
ユーティリティは
.St -p1003.1-2001
に適合しています。
.Sh 歴史
.Nm
コマンドは
.Bx 4.0
から登場しました。
.Sh バグ
これは本来の
.Tn SCCS
のシステムに属する
.Nm
コマンドを書き直したものです。
このため、正確には同じ動作をしないかもしれません。
