.\" Copyright (c) 1986, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)who.1	8.2 (Berkeley) 12/30/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/who/who.1,v 1.16 2004/07/02 22:22:34 ru Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd May 8, 2002
.Dt WHO 1
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm who
.Nd 誰がシステム上にいるかを表示する
.Sh 書式
.Nm
.Op Fl HmqsTu
.Op Cm am I
.Op Ar file
.Sh 解説
.Nm
ユーティリティは、現在ログインしている全ユーザについて情報を表示します。
デフォルトでは、ログイン名、端末名、ログインした日時、
ローカルでない場合はホスト名が含まれます。
.Pp
オプションは以下の通りです:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl H
コラムの見出しを出力の上に表示します。
.It Fl m
標準入力に接続された端末情報のみを表示します。
.It Fl q
.Dq 高速モード :
ログインユーザの名前と数をコラムに表示します。
他のコマンドラインオプションはすべて無視されます。
.It Fl s
名前、回線、時刻フィールドのみを表示します。
これがデフォルトです。
.It Fl T
各ユーザがメッセージを受け付けているかどうかを表示します。
次のいずれかの文字が表示されます:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width 1n -compact
.It Li +
ユーザはメッセージを受け付けています。
.It Li \&-
ユーザはメッセージを受け付けていません。
.It Li \&?
エラーが発生しました。
.El
.It Fl u
各ユーザに関して、アイドル時間を、時間と分の
.Ar hh Ns : Ns Ar mm
の形式、アイドル時間が 1 分未満の場合は
.Ql \&.
の形式、アイドル時間が 24 時間を越える場合は
.Dq Li old
の形式で表示します。
.It Cm am I
.Fl m
と同じです。
.El
.Pp
.Nm
はデフォルトで
.Pa /var/run/utmp
を調べますが、
.Ar file
が指定された場合、そのファイルからユーザ情報を得るようにします。
.Ar file
には、普通、
.Pa /var/log/wtmp
を指定します (あるいは、サイトの方針次第ですが、
.Pa /var/log/wtmp.[0-6]
であるかもしれません。というのも、
.Pa wtmp
ファイルは大変大きくなるかもしれないので、
.Xr ac 8
によって圧縮した後には、
日毎のファイルを保存していない場合もあるからです)。
.Pa wtmp
には、最後に
.Pa wtmp
を作成するか、またはそのファイルサイズを 0 にして以来の
全てのログイン、ログアウト、クラッシュ、シャットダウン、および
date コマンドでの日時の変更が記録されています。
.Pp
.Pa /var/log/wtmp
ファイルが記録ファイルとして使用されている場合には、
ユーザ名は空、あるいは特殊文字 '|', '}', '~' のうちの
ひとつであるかもしれません。その際には、ログアウトすることで、ユーザ名
が記録されていない出力行を生成します。より詳しくは、
.Xr utmp 5
を参照してください。
.Sh 環境変数
.Ev COLUMNS , LANG , LC_ALL , LC_TIME
の環境変数が、
.Xr environ 7
の記述通りに、
.Nm
の実行に影響します。
.Sh 関連ファイル
.Bl -tag -width /var/log/wtmp.[0-6] -compact
.It Pa /var/run/utmp
.It Pa /var/log/wtmp
.It Pa /var/log/wtmp.[0-6]
.El
.Sh 診断
.Ex -std
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr last 1 ,
.Xr users 1 ,
.Xr w 1 ,
.Xr utmp 5
.Sh 規格
.Nm
ユーティリティは
.St -p1003.1-2001
に適合しています。
.Sh 歴史
.Nm
ユーティリティは
.At v1
から登場しました。
