.\" Copyright (c) 1989, 1990 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" Robert Paul Corbett.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)yacc.1	5.8 (Berkeley) 5/24/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/yacc/yacc.1,v 1.16 2004/07/02 22:22:35 ru Exp %
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd May 24, 1993
.Dt YACC 1
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm yacc
.Nd LALR(1) パーサジェネレータ
.Sh 書式
.Nm
.Op Fl dlrtv
.Op Fl b Ar file_prefix
.Op Fl o Ar output_filename
.Op Fl p Ar symbol_prefix
.Ar filename
.Sh 解説
.Nm
ユーティリティは、
.Ar filename
から文法仕様を読み取り、その仕様から LR(1) パーサを生成します。
パーサは、C 言語で書かれた LALR(1)
解析テーブルとドライバルーチンのセットから構成されています。
.Nm
ユーティリティは通常、
.Pa y.tab.c
というファイルに解析テーブルとドライバルーチンを書き込みます。
.Pp
以下のオプションが使えます:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl b Ar file_prefix
出力ファイル名の先頭に加えるプレフィックス文字列を
.Ar file_prefix
に変更します。
デフォルトのプレフィックスは
.Pa y
です。
.It Fl d
ヘッダファイル
.Pa y.tab.h
を生成するよう指示します。
.It Fl l
もし
.Fl l
オプションが指定されていなければ、
.Nm
は生成コードに #line ディレクティブを挿入します。
#line ディレクティブは、生成されたコードの中のエラーと
ユーザのオリジナルコードとの関連づけを C コンパイラに行わせます。
もし
.Fl l
オプションが指定されていれば、
.Nm
は #line ディレクティブを挿入しません。
ユーザによって指定された #line ディレクティブはそのまま残されます。
.It Fl o Ar output_filename
.Nm
に対し、デフォルトファイルの
.Pa y.tab.c
の代りに
.Ar output_filename
に生成コードを出力させます。
.It Fl p Ar symbol_prefix
yacc によって生成されたシンボルの先頭につけるプレフィックスを
.Ar symbol_prefix
で指定された文字列に変更します。
デフォルトのプレフィックスは、文字列
.Pa yy
です。
.It Fl r
.Nm
はコードとテーブルを別々のファイルに出力します。コードファイル名は
.Pa y.code.c
となり、テーブルファイル名は
.Pa y.tab.c
となります。
.It Fl t
.Nm
によって生成されるプリプロセッサディレクティブを変更し、デバッグ
用の文をコンパイルされたコードの中に埋め込みます。
.It Fl v
生成されたパーザの詳細を人間に読める形式で、
ファイル
.Pa y.output
に出力します。
.El
.Sh 環境変数
.Bl -tag -width ".Ev TMPDIR"
.It Ev TMPDIR
テンポラリファイルが作られるディレクトリ名。
.El
.Sh テーブル
本バージョンの
.Nm
が作成するテーブル名は
.Va yylhs , yylen , yydefred , yydgoto , yysindex ,
.Va yyrindex , yygindex , yytable ,
.Va yycheck
です。
2 個の追加テーブル
.Va yyname
と
.Va yyrule
は、
.Dv YYDEBUG
を非 0 に定義すると作成されます。
.Sh 関連ファイル
.Bl -tag -width "Pa /tmp/yacc.aXXXXXXXXXX" -compact
.It Pa y.code.c
.It Pa y.tab.c
.It Pa y.tab.h
.It Pa y.output
.It Pa /tmp/yacc.aXXXXXXXXXX
.It Pa /tmp/yacc.tXXXXXXXXXX
.It Pa /tmp/yacc.uXXXXXXXXXX
.El
.Sh 診断
もし還元できないルールがあった場合、そのルール数が標準エラー
出力に表示されます。
もし何らかの
.Tn LALR(1)
の衝突があった場合、衝突数も標準エラー出力に表示されます。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr yyfix 1
.Sh 歴史
.Nm
コマンドは PWB UNIX に登場しました。
.Sh 規格
.Nm
ユーティリティは
.St -p1003.2
に適合しています。
