.\"	%FreeBSD: src/usr.sbin/gifconfig/gifconfig.8,v 1.1.2.3 2000/07/15 07:36:25 kris Exp %
.\"	%KAME: gifconfig.8,v 1.5 2000/05/13 07:48:10 itojun Exp %
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 1995, 1996, 1997, and 1998 WIDE Project.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of the project nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\" 
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE PROJECT AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE PROJECT OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" jpman %Id: gifconfig.8,v 1.4 2000/05/10 13:44:39 takaha Stab %
.Dd May 17, 1998
.Dt GIFCONFIG 8
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm gifconfig
.Nd 一般的な IP トンネルを設定する
.\"
.Sh 書式
.Nm
.Ar interface
.Op Ar af
.Op Ar physsrc physdest
.Nm gifconfig
.Ar interface
.Ic delete
.Nm gifconfig
.Fl a
.Sh 解説
.Nm
は "gif0" のような一般的な IP トンネルインタフェースに
物理アドレスを設定します。引数
.Ar physsrc
と
.Ar physdest
はカプセル化された IPv4/v6 ヘッダに対する始点/終点アドレスとして
解釈されます。引数
.Ar af
は
.Ar physsrc
と
.Ar physdest
のアドレスファミリを指定します。
.Ar af
は
.Li inet
または
.Li inet6
であり、省略時には
.Li inet
であるとみなされます。
.Pp
特別な引数
.Ic delete
を指定すると、
.Nm
は、
.Ar interface
上の既存の始点アドレスと終点アドレスを単に削除します。
外部のアドレスを指定しない場合、この用途は効果がありません。
.Pp
.Nm
は以下の引数をオプションとして取ることができます:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl a
全ての一般的な IP トンネルインタフェースに関連する情報を表示します。
.El
.Pp
同じアドレスファミリ
.Po
たとえば IPv4-over-IPv4
.Pc
でトンネルの設定を行うと、
簡単に無限ルーティングループを作ることができてしまうことに
注意してください。
.Sh 使用例
.Li 10.1.1.1
と
.Li 10.2.3.4
の間で IPv6 over IPv4
.Pq 別名 IPv6 in IPv4
トンネルを設定する場合には、
以下のコマンドを実行します:
.Bd -literal -offset
# gifconfig gif0 inet 10.1.1.1 10.2.3.4
.Ed
.Pp
.\" To use the
.\" .Li 0.0.0.0
.\" feature to establish a tunnel from host1 to host3
.\" which will encapsulate and carry packets from host2, on host1 do:
.\" .Bd -literal -offset
.\" # ifconfig gif0 inet host1  127.0.0.2  # assign an address to gif0
.\" # gifconfig gif0 inet host1 0.0.0.0    # assign encapsulation addresses
.\" # route add host2 host3 -ifp gif0:     # encap host2 packets, send to host3
.\" .Ed
.\" .Pp
.\" Note: the
.\" .Fl ifp
.\" option to route does not work as documented in
.\" most versions of FreeBSD.
.\" .Pp
.\" On host3 do:
.\" .Bd -literal -offset
.\" # ifconfig gif0 inet host3  127.0.0.2  # assign an address to gif0
.\" # gifconfig gif0 inet host3 0.0.0.0    # assign encapsulation addresses
.\" .Ed
.\" .Pp
.\" Now if you ping host2 from host1, the packets should be encapsulated
.\" with outer source address = host1 and outer destination address = host3,
.\" and delivered to host3.
.\" host3 will decapsulate the packet and deliver it normally to host2.
.\" .Pp
上述の例で
.Li inet
を
.Li inet6
に置き換えることで外部のプロトコルとして IPv6 を使用することも可能です。
.Sh 戻り値
コマンドはエラー時には終了ステータス 1 を、成功時には 0 を返します。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr gif 4 ,
.Xr ifconfig 8
.Sh 歴史
.Nm
コマンドは WIDE Hydrangea IPv6 プロトコルスタックキットで
はじめて登場しました。
.Pp
KAME Project (http://www.kame.net/) スタックを基とする
IPv6 および IPsec のサポートは、
.Fx 4.0
で始めて組み込まれました。
