.\" Copyright (c) 1996-1999 Whistle Communications, Inc.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" Subject to the following obligations and disclaimer of warranty, use and
.\" redistribution of this software, in source or object code forms, with or
.\" without modifications are expressly permitted by Whistle Communications;
.\" provided, however, that:
.\" 1. Any and all reproductions of the source or object code must include the
.\"    copyright notice above and the following disclaimer of warranties; and
.\" 2. No rights are granted, in any manner or form, to use Whistle
.\"    Communications, Inc. trademarks, including the mark "WHISTLE
.\"    COMMUNICATIONS" on advertising, endorsements, or otherwise except as
.\"    such appears in the above copyright notice or in the software.
.\" 
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS BEING PROVIDED BY WHISTLE COMMUNICATIONS "AS IS", AND
.\" TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, WHISTLE COMMUNICATIONS MAKES NO
.\" REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, REGARDING THIS SOFTWARE,
.\" INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY AND ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, OR NON-INFRINGEMENT.
.\" WHISTLE COMMUNICATIONS DOES NOT WARRANT, GUARANTEE, OR MAKE ANY
.\" REPRESENTATIONS REGARDING THE USE OF, OR THE RESULTS OF THE USE OF THIS
.\" SOFTWARE IN TERMS OF ITS CORRECTNESS, ACCURACY, RELIABILITY OR OTHERWISE.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL WHISTLE COMMUNICATIONS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DAMAGES
.\" RESULTING FROM OR ARISING OUT OF ANY USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING
.\" WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY,
.\" PUNITIVE, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
.\" SERVICES, LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, HOWEVER CAUSED AND UNDER ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF WHISTLE COMMUNICATIONS IS ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY
.\" OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" 
.\" Author: Archie Cobbs <archie@whistle.com>
.\"
.\" %FreeBSD: src/sys/modules/netgraph/echo/ng_echo.8,v 1.4 1999/12/21 01:25:08 julian Exp %
.\" $Whistle: ng_echo.8,v 1.4 1999/01/25 23:46:26 archie Exp $
.\"
.\" jpman %Id: ng_echo.8,v 1.3 1999/12/20 00:23:36 mitchy Stab %
.Dd January 19, 1999
.Dt NG_ECHO 8
.Os FreeBSD
.Sh 名称
.Nm ng_echo
.Nd netgraph エコーノードタイプ
.Sh 書式
.Fd #include <netgraph/ng_echo.h>
.Sh 解説
.Nm echo
ノードタイプは、すべてのデータメッセージおよび制御メッセージを、
送信者へ送り返します。
本ノードタイプは、テストおよびデバッグ用です。
.Sh フック
.Nm echo
ノードは、フック名がユニークである限りにおいてはフック名に関係なく、
あらゆる接続要求を受け付けます。
.Sh 制御メッセージ
本ノードタイプは、汎用制御メッセージのみをサポートします。
他の制御メッセージは、送信者へ送り返されます。
.Sh シャットダウン
本ノードは、
.Dv NGM_SHUTDOWN
制御メッセージの受信時か、全フックが切断されたときに、シャットダウンします。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr netgraph 4 ,
.Xr ng_hole 8 ,
.Xr ngctl 8
.Sh 歴史
.Nm
ノードタイプは
.Fx 4.0
で実装されました。
.Sh 作者
.An Julian Elischer Aq julian@whistle.com
