.\" $OpenBSD: sftp-server.8,v 1.8 2001/06/23 05:57:08 deraadt Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2000 Markus Friedl.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" Japanese translation: $Id: sftp-server.8,v 1.6 2002-12-30 06:11:15 horikawa Exp $
.\" by Yusuke Shinyama <yusuke at cs . nyu . edu>
.\" %FreeBSD%
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd August 30, 2000
.Dt SFTP-SERVER 8
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm sftp-server
.Nd SFTP サーバ サブシステム
.Sh 書式
.Nm sftp-server
.Sh 解説
.Nm
はサーバ側の SFTP プロトコルを標準出力に向かって話し、
クライアント側の要求を標準入力から受けつけます。
.Nm
は直接 実行されるためにあるのではなく、
.Xr sshd 8
の
.Cm Subsystem
オプションを使って呼び出します。
より詳しい情報については
.Xr sshd 8
を見てください。
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr sftp 1 ,
.Xr ssh 1 ,
.Xr sshd 8
.Rs
.%A T. Ylonen
.%A S. Lehtinen
.%T "SSH File Transfer Protocol"
.%N draft-ietf-secsh-filexfer-00.txt
.%D January 2001
.%O work in progress material
.Re
.Sh 作者
Markus Friedl <markus@openbsd.org>
.Sh 歴史
.Nm
は
OpenBSD 2.8
で最初に登場しました。
.Sh 日本語訳
新山 祐介 (yusuke at cs . nyu . edu) 2002/3/13 (for 3.1p1)
.Pp
当マニュアルページは氏のご好意により
.Fx
日本語マニュアルに収録させていただいています。
翻訳についてのご意見、ご指摘がありましたら新山氏
(yusuke at cs . nyu . edu)、および
.Fx
jpman プロジェクト
.Aq man-jp@jp.FreeBSD.org
までお送りください。
