.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)utmp.5	8.2 (Berkeley) 3/17/94
.\" %FreeBSD: src/share/man/man5/utmp.5,v 1.20 2003/07/08 12:46:25 dannyboy Exp %
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.Dd November 14, 2001
.Dt UTMP 5
.Os
.Sh 名称
.Nm utmp ,
.Nm wtmp ,
.Nm lastlog
.Nd ログイン記録
.Sh 書式
.In sys/types.h
.In utmp.h
.Sh 解説
.Aq Pa utmp.h
ファイルは、
.Nm
ファイルでの現在のユーザについての情報や
.Nm wtmp
ファイル中でのログインやログアウトの情報、
.Nm lastlog
ファイル中での最終ログイン情報の記録のために使われる構造体を
宣言しています。
時刻の変更やシャットダウンおよびリブートのタイムスタンプは、同じように
.Nm wtmp
ファイルに記録されます。
.Bd -literal -offset indent
#define _PATH_UTMP      "/var/run/utmp"
#define _PATH_WTMP      "/var/log/wtmp"
#define _PATH_LASTLOG   "/var/log/lastlog"

#define UT_NAMESIZE     16
#define UT_LINESIZE     8
#define UT_HOSTSIZE     16

struct lastlog {
        int32_t ll_time;		/* ユーザが何時ログインしたか */
        char    ll_line[UT_LINESIZE];	/* 端末線名 */
        char    ll_host[UT_HOSTSIZE];	/* ユーザの出身ホスト */
};

struct utmp {
        char    ut_line[UT_LINESIZE];	/* 端末線名 */
        char    ut_name[UT_NAMESIZE];	/* ユーザのログイン名 */
        char    ut_host[UT_HOSTSIZE];	/* ユーザの出身ホスト */
        int32_t ut_time;		/* ユーザが何時ログインしたか */
};
.Ed
.Pp
.Nm lastlog
ファイルは、
.Vt lastlog
構造体の線型配列であり、ユーザの
.Tn UID
でインデックスされています。
.Nm
ファイルは、
.Vt utmp
構造体の線型配列であり、端末線番号 (
.Xr ttyslot 3
参照) でインデックスされています。
.Nm wtmp
ファイルは、
.Vt utmp
構造体から成るバイナリログファイルであり、
ファイルの終端に追記されていきます。
.Pp
デフォルトでは、ユーザがログインするたびに、
.Xr pam_lastlog 8
プログラムは
.Nm lastlog
ファイル中のユーザの
.Tn UID
を検索します。
もし見つかった場合、ユーザが最後にログインした時刻のタイムスタンプ、
端末線、ホスト名が標準出力に書き出されます。
.Xr pam_lastlog 8
プログラムは、その後
.Nm lastlog
ファイルに新しいログイン時刻を記録します。
.Pp
新しい
.Vt lastlog
への記録が書き出された後で、
.\" the
.\" .Xr libutil 3
.\" routine
.Nm
ファイルがオープンされ、ユーザに対する
.Vt utmp
記録が挿入されます。
この記録は、ユーザがログアウトして削除される時まで保持されます。
.Nm
ファイルは、
.Xr rwho 1 ,
.Xr users 1 ,
.Xr w 1 ,
.Xr who 1
プログラムで使われます。
.Pp
次に、
.Xr pam_lastlog 8
プログラムは
.Nm wtmp
ファイルをオープンし、ユーザの
.Vt utmp
記録を追加します。
その後ユーザが端末線からログアウントすると、特別な
.Vt utmp
レコードが記録されます。
すなわち
.Va ut_line
が適切に設定され、
.Va ut_time
が更新されますが、
.Va ut_name
と
.Va ut_host
は空であるものが記録されます (
.Xr init 8
参照)。
.Nm wtmp
ファイルは、
.Xr last 1
と
.Xr ac 8
プログラムで使われます。
.Pp
時刻変更やシャットダウン・リブートの際には、
以下の項目が
.Nm wtmp
ファイルに記録されます。
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width ".Li shutdown" -compact
.It Li reboot
.It Li shutdown
システムのリブートやシャットダウンが開始された。
.Va ut_line
フィールドに
.Ql \&~
と言う文字が、
.Va ut_name
フィールド中に
.Li reboot
もしくは
.Li shutdown
が記録されます (
.Xr shutdown 8
と
.Xr reboot 8
参照)。
.Pp
.It Li date
システム時刻が手動もしくは自動で更新された (
.Xr date 1
参照)。
コマンド名
.Li date
がフィールド
.Va ut_name
に記録されます。
.Fa ut_line
フィールド中の
.Ql \&|
文字は、変更前の時刻を示し、
.Ql \&{
文字は新しい時刻を示しています。
.El
.Sh 注
.Nm wtmp
ファイルは、忙しいシステムでは急速に大きくなりますので、
毎日もしくは毎週ローテションすることを推奨します。
このファイルは、
.Xr newsyslog 8
によって管理されます。
.Pp
これらのファイルが存在しない場合、
.Xr pam_lastlog 8
はこれらを作成しません。
これらのファイルは、手動で作成する必要があります。
.Pp
.Nm
および
.Nm wtmp
のファイルに対する通常の操作は、提供された
.Xr login 3 ,
.Xr logout 3 ,
.Xr logwtmp 3
ユーティリティ関数で行い、
これらのファイルの書式が異なるシステム間での互換性を維持すべきです。
.Sh 関連ファイル
.Bl -tag -width ".Pa /var/log/lastlog" -compact
.It Pa /var/run/utmp
.Nm
ファイル。
.It Pa /var/log/wtmp
.Nm wtmp
ファイル。
.It Pa /var/log/lastlog
.Nm lastlog
ファイル。
.El
.Sh 関連項目
.Xr last 1 ,
.Xr w 1 ,
.Xr who 1 ,
.Xr login 3 ,
.Xr logout 3 ,
.Xr logwtmp 3 ,
.Xr ttyslot 3 ,
.Xr ac 8 ,
.Xr init 8 ,
.Xr pam_lastlog 8
.Sh 歴史
.Nm
と
.Nm wtmp
ファイル書式は
.At v6
から登場しました。
.Nm lastlog
ファイル書式は
.Bx 3.0
から登場しました。
