.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1993, 1994
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)basename.1	8.2 (Berkeley) 4/18/94
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/basename/basename.1,v 1.17 2006/03/16 17:21:52 jkoshy Exp %
.\" $FreeBSDru: frdp/doc/ru_RU.KOI8-R/man/man1/basename.1,v 1.4 2007/11/13 11:08:03 ru Exp $
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd 18 апреля 1994
.Dt BASENAME 1
.Os
.Sh НАЗВАНИЕ
.Nm basename , dirname
.Nd вернуть файловую или каталоговую часть пути
.Sh СИНТАКСИС
.Nm
.Ar строка
.Op Ar суффикс
.Nm
.Op Fl a
.Op Fl s Ar суффикс
.Ar строка
.Op Ar ...
.Nm dirname
.Ar строка
.Sh ОПИСАНИЕ
Утилита
.Nm
удаляет из строки
.Ar строка
любой префикс, оканчивающийся последней косой чертой
.Ql \&/
в строке, предварительно удалив косые черты в конце строки.
Если был задан
.Ar суффикс ,
он также будет удалён.
Суффикс не удаляется, если он совпадает с оставшимися символами строки.
Получившееся имя файла пишется в стандартный вывод.
Несуществующий суффикс игнорируется.
Если указан
.Fl a ,
то каждый аргумент принимается за отдельную строку,
как если бы
.Nm
была выполнена всего лишь с одним аргументом.
Если указан
.Fl s ,
то его аргумент принимается за
.Ar суффикс ,
а все остальные аргументы принимаются за строки.
.Pp
Утилита
.Nm dirname
удаляет файловую часть, начиная с последней косой черты
.Ql \&/
до конца строки
.Ar строка ,
предварительно удалив косые черты из конца строки,
и пишет результат в стандартный вывод.
.Sh СТАТУС ЗАВЕРШЕНИЯ
.Ex -std basename dirname
.Sh ПРИМЕРЫ
Следующая строка присваивает переменной командной оболочки
.Ev FOO
значение
.Pa /usr/bin .
.Pp
.Dl FOO=`dirname /usr/bin/trail`
.Sh СМОТРИ ТАКЖЕ
.Xr csh 1 ,
.Xr sh 1 ,
.Xr basename 3 ,
.Xr dirname 3
.Sh СТАНДАРТЫ
Предполагается, что утилиты
.Nm
и
.Nm dirname
совместимы со стандартом
.St -p1003.2 .
