.\" Copyright (c) 1989, 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)column.1	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/6/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/column/column.1,v 1.14 2005/01/18 13:43:48 ru Exp %
.\" $FreeBSDru: frdp/doc/ru_RU.KOI8-R/man/man1/column.1,v 1.2 2006/12/15 17:04:24 ru Exp $
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd 29 июля 2004
.Os
.Dt COLUMN 1
.Sh НАЗВАНИЕ
.Nm column
.Nd вывести списки в виде колонок
.Sh СИНТАКСИС
.Nm
.Op Fl tx
.Op Fl c Ar столбцов
.Op Fl s Ar разделители
.Op Ar
.Sh ОПИСАНИЕ
Утилита
.Nm
форматирует входные данные в несколько колонок.
Вначале заполняются строки, затем колонки.
Входные данные читаются либо из указанных аргументами файлов,
либо (по умолчанию) из стандартного ввода.
Пустые строки игнорируются.
.Pp
Имеются следующие опции:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl c
Форматировать вывод для экрана шириной в указанное число
.Ar столбцов .
.It Fl s
Задать набор символов, разделяющих колонки во входных
данных при использовании опции
.Fl t .
.It Fl t
Определить число колонок во входных данных и построить из них таблицу.
Колонки разделяются либо символами пробела и табуляции, либо
символами, заданными опцией
.Fl s .
Применяется для вывода информации на дисплей в наглядной форме.
.It Fl x
Вначале заполнять колонки, затем строки.
.El
.Sh ОКРУЖЕНИЕ
Переменные окружения
.Ev COLUMNS , LANG , LC_ALL
и
.Ev LC_CTYPE
влияют на процесс выполнения
.Nm ,
как описано в
.Xr environ 7 .
.Sh СТАТУС ЗАВЕРШЕНИЯ
.Ex -std
.Sh ПРИМЕРЫ
.Dl (printf \&"PERM LINKS OWNER GROUP SIZE MONTH DAY \&"\ \&;\ \&\e
.Dl printf \&"HH:MM/YEAR NAME\en\&"\ \&;\ \&\e
.Dl ls -l \&| sed 1d) \&| column -t
.Sh СМОТРИ ТАКЖЕ
.Xr colrm 1 ,
.Xr ls 1 ,
.Xr paste 1 ,
.Xr sort 1
.Sh ИСТОРИЯ
Команда
.Nm
появилась в
.Bx 4.3 Reno .
.Sh ПРОБЛЕМЫ
Длина входных строк ограничена
.Dv LINE_MAX
(2048) байтами.
