.\" Copyright (c) 1989, 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     From: @(#)comm.1	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/6/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/comm/comm.1,v 1.14 2005/01/25 22:28:34 tjr Exp %
.\" $FreeBSDru: frdp/doc/ru_RU.KOI8-R/man/man1/comm.1,v 1.3 2007/11/20 13:50:08 ru Exp $
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd 26 января 2005
.Os
.Dt COMM 1
.Sh НАЗВАНИЕ
.Nm comm
.Nd выбрать или отбросить строки, общие для двух файлов
.Sh СИНТАКСИС
.Nm
.Op Fl 123i
.Ar файл1 файл2
.Sh ОПИСАНИЕ
Утилита
.Nm
читает
.Ar файл1
и
.Ar файл2 ,
которые должны быть предварительно лексически отсортированы,
и генерирует вывод, состоящий из трёх колонок текста:
строки, найденные только в файле
.Ar файл1 ;
строки, найденные только в файле
.Ar файл2 ;
и строки, общие для обоих файлов.
.Pp
Имя файла ``-'' означает стандартный ввод.
.Pp
Имеются следующие опции:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl 1
Подавить вывод первой колонки.
.It Fl 2
Подавить вывод второй колонки.
.It Fl 3
Подавить вывод третьей колонки.
.It Fl i
Нечувствительное к регистру сравнение строк.
.El
.Pp
Перед каждой колонкой будет напечатано столько символов табуляции,
сколько печатается колонок с меньшими номерами.
Например, если вывод второй колонки подавляется, то перед строками,
печатаемыми в первой колонке, символов табуляции не будет совсем,
а перед строками в третьей колонке будет напечатан один символ
табуляции.
.Pp
Утилита
.Nm
предполагает, что файлы были предварительно лексически отсортированы;
все символы участвуют в сравнении строк.
.Sh ОКРУЖЕНИЕ
Переменные окружения
.Ev LANG ,
.Ev LC_ALL ,
.Ev LC_COLLATE
и
.Ev LC_CTYPE
влияют на процесс выполнения
.Nm ,
как описано в
.Xr environ 7 .
.Sh СТАТУС ЗАВЕРШЕНИЯ
.Ex -std
.Sh СМОТРИ ТАКЖЕ
.Xr cmp 1 ,
.Xr diff 1 ,
.Xr sort 1 ,
.Xr uniq 1
.Sh СТАНДАРТЫ
Утилита
.Nm
соответствует стандарту
.St -p1003.2-92 .
.Pp
Опция
.Fl i
является расширением стандарта
.Tn POSIX .
.Sh ИСТОРИЯ
Команда
.Nm
впервые появилась в
.At v4 .
.Sh ПРОБЛЕМЫ
Длина входных строк ограничена
.Dv LINE_MAX
(2048) символами.
