.\"-
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)echo.1	8.1 (Berkeley) 7/22/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/bin/echo/echo.1,v 1.19 2005/01/16 16:41:56 ru Exp %
.\" $FreeBSDru: frdp/doc/ru_RU.KOI8-R/man/man1/echo.1,v 1.6 2006/12/24 10:43:36 ru Exp $
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd 12 апреля 2003
.Dt ECHO 1
.Os
.Sh НАЗВАНИЕ
.Nm echo
.Nd записать аргументы в стандартный вывод
.Sh СИНТАКСИС
.Nm
.Op Fl n
.Op Ar строка ...
.Sh ОПИСАНИЕ
Утилита
.Nm
пишет все свои аргументы, разделённые одиночными
символами пробела
.Pq Ql "\ " ,
и затем символ новой строки
.Pq Ql \en ,
в стандартный
вывод.
.Pp
Имеется следующая опция:
.Bl -tag -width flag
.It Fl n
Не печатать завершающий символ новой строки.
Того же эффекта можно достичь, если добавить символ
.Ql \ec
в конец строки, как это делается
iBCS2-совместимыми системами.
Заметьте, что в
.St -p1003.1-2001
с поправками Cor.\& 1-2002
эта опция, также как и действие
.Ql \ec ,
определяются реализацией.
Поэтому настоятельно рекомендуется, чтобы приложения, стремящиеся
к максимальной переносимости, для подавления символа перевода строки
использовали
.Xr printf 1 .
.El
.Pp
Некоторые командные оболочки имеют встроенную команду
.Nm
с похожей либо идентичной функциональностью.
Обратитесь к странице справочника
.Xr builtin 1 .
.Sh СТАТУС ЗАВЕРШЕНИЯ
.Ex -std
.Sh СМОТРИ ТАКЖЕ
.Xr builtin 1 ,
.Xr csh 1 ,
.Xr printf 1 ,
.Xr sh 1
.Sh СТАНДАРТЫ
Утилита
.Nm
соответствует стандарту
.St -p1003.1-2001
с поправками Cor.\& 1-2002.
