.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1990, 1992, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)gcore.1	8.2 (Berkeley) 4/18/94
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/gcore/gcore.1,v 1.15 2004/07/03 00:24:40 ru Exp %
.\" $FreeBSDru: frdp/doc/ru_RU.KOI8-R/man/man1/gcore.1,v 1.1 2006/12/21 21:33:28 ru Exp $
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd 18 апреля 1994
.Dt GCORE 1
.Os
.Sh НАЗВАНИЕ
.Nm gcore
.Nd получить дамп памяти запущенного процесса
.Sh СИНТАКСИС
.Nm
.Op Fl s
.Op Fl c Ar файл_дампа
.Op Ar исполняемый_файл
.Ar pid
.Sh ОПИСАНИЕ
Утилита
.Nm
создаёт дамп памяти указанного процесса,
пригодный для использования в
.Xr gdb 1 .
По умолчанию, дамп записывается в файл
.Dq Pa core.<pid> .
В командной строке должен быть задан идентификатор процесса,
.Ar pid .
Если образ исполняемого файла не указан,
.Nm
будет использовать
.Dq Pa /proc/<pid>/file .
.Pp
Имеются следующие опции:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl c
Записать дамп памяти в указанный файл вместо
.Dq Pa core.<pid> .
.It Fl s
Приостановить процесс на время создания дампа, и возобновить
его работу после получения дампа.
Этим гарантируется, что полученный дамп памяти будет
в непротиворечивом состоянии.
Работа процесса будет продолжена, даже если он был
уже остановлен до того.
Такого же эффекта можно достичь вручную с помощью
.Xr kill 1 .
.El
.Sh ФАЙЛЫ
.Bl -tag -width /var/log/messages -compact
.It Pa core.<pid>
дамп памяти
.It Pa /proc/<pid>/file
образ исполняемого файла
.El
.Sh ИСТОРИЯ
Утилита
.Nm
появилась в
.Bx 4.2 .
.Sh ПРОБЛЕМЫ
Переключения контекста или страничная подкачка,
случающиеся во время работы
.Nm ,
могут привести к неожиданным результатам.
Для достижения наилучших результатов следует использовать
.Fl s
для временной остановки указанного процесса.
.Pp
Утилита
.Nm
не совместима с оригинальной версией из
.Bx 4.2 .
