.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)look.1	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/14/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/look/look.1,v 1.17 2005/01/17 07:44:22 ru Exp %
.\" $FreeBSDru: frdp/doc/ru_RU.KOI8-R/man/man1/look.1,v 1.1 2007/11/09 10:38:39 ru Exp $
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd 17 июля 2004
.Dt LOOK 1
.Os
.Sh НАЗВАНИЕ
.Nm look
.Nd вывести строки файла, начинающиеся с заданной строки
.Sh СИНТАКСИС
.Nm
.Op Fl df
.Op Fl t Ar ограничитель
.Ar строка
.Op Ar
.Sh ОПИСАНИЕ
Утилита
.Nm
выводит все строки из файла
.Ar файл ,
содержащие строку
.Ar строка
в качестве префикса.
Строки в файле должны быть предварительно отсортированы, поскольку
.Nm
выполняет двоичный поиск.
.Pp
Если аргумент
.Ar файл
не указан, то поиск будет вестись по файлу
.Pa /usr/share/dict/words ,
и сравниваться будут только буквенно-цифровые символы
без учёта регистра.
.Pp
Доступны следующие опции:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl d
Набор символов и порядок как в словаре, т.е.\& в сравнении будут
участвовать только буквенно-цифровые символы.
.It Fl f
Игнорировать регистр символов.
.It Fl t
Задаёт символ-ограничитель.
Если он указан, то
.Ar строка
будет сравниваться только до первого символа
.Ar ограничитель .
.El
.Sh ОКРУЖЕНИЕ
Переменные окружения
.Ev LANG , LC_ALL
и
.Ev LC_CTYPE
влияют на выполнение
.Nm ,
как описано в
.Xr environ 7 .
.Sh ФАЙЛЫ
.Bl -tag -width /usr/share/dict/words -compact
.It Pa /usr/share/dict/words
словарь
.El
.Sh СТАТУС ЗАВЕРШЕНИЯ
Утилита
.Nm
возвращает 0, если в результате поиска была найдена и выведена
хотя бы одна строка, 1, если соответствующих условию строк найдено не было,
и >1 в случае возникновения ошибки.
.Sh СОВМЕСТИМОСТЬ
Согласно оригинальной странице справочника, символы табуляции и пробелов
учитывались при сравнении строк, если была указана опция
.Fl d .
Это не соответствовало действительности, и настоящая страница справочника
соответствует исторической реализации.
.Sh СМОТРИ ТАКЖЕ
.Xr grep 1 ,
.Xr sort 1
.Sh ИСТОРИЯ
Утилита
.Nm
появилась в
.At v7 .
.Sh ПРОБЛЕМЫ
Строки не сравниваются с учётом порядка следования символов в текущих
региональных настройках.
Входные файлы должны быть отсортированы с
.Ev LC_COLLATE
установленной в
.Ql C .
