.\" Copyright (c) 1997
.\"	Michael Smith
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/minigzip/minigzip.1,v 1.10 2004/07/02 22:22:28 ru Exp %
.\" $FreeBSDru: frdp/doc/ru_RU.KOI8-R/man/man1/minigzip.1,v 1.2 2006/12/16 19:34:44 ru Exp $
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd 3 октября 2002
.Dt MINIGZIP 1
.Os
.Sh НАЗВАНИЕ
.Nm minigzip
.Nd минимальная реализация утилиты сжатия 'gzip'
.Sh СИНТАКСИС
.Nm
.Op Fl cd
.Op Ar
.Sh ОПИСАНИЕ
Утилита
.Nm
представляет собой минимальную по функциональности реализацию утилиты
.Xr gzip 1 .
Она поддерживает сжатие и распаковку как отдельных файлов, так и
потоков (через стандартный ввод и вывод).
.Pp
По умолчанию выполняется сжатие, для распаковки следует в
командной строке указать опцию
.Fl d .
.Pp
Если заданы аргументы
.Ar файл ,
то операция выполняется над каждым файлом по отдельности.
Сжатие заменяет исходный файл на файл с суффиксом
.Pa .gz
в имени.
Распаковка удаляет из имени суффикс
.Pa .gz ,
если он присутствовал.
.Pp
Если аргументы
.Ar файл
не заданы,
.Nm
читает из стандартного ввода и пишет результаты работы в стандартный вывод.
.Pp
Если задана опция
.Fl c ,
.Nm
записывает результат в стандартный вывод,
оставляя при этом исходные файлы без изменений.
.Sh СМОТРИ ТАКЖЕ
.Xr gzip 1
.Sh АВТОРЫ
Утилиту
.Nm
написал
.An Jean-loup Gailly .
