.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)nice.1	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/6/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/nice/nice.1,v 1.26 2005/01/18 13:43:51 ru Exp %
.\" $FreeBSDru: frdp/doc/ru_RU.KOI8-R/man/man1/nice.1,v 1.2 2006/12/20 09:38:36 ru Exp $
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd 6 июня 1993
.Dt NICE 1
.Os
.Sh НАЗВАНИЕ
.Nm nice
.Nd запустить программу с изменённым приоритетом планирования
.Sh СИНТАКСИС
.Nm
.Op Fl n Ar приращение
.Ar программа
.Op Ar аргумент ...
.Sh ОПИСАНИЕ
Утилита
.Nm
запускает программу, заданную аргументом
.Ar программа ,
с изменённым приоритетом планирования, увеличивая eё значение
.Dq nice
на указанное
.Ar приращение .
Если
.Ar приращение
не указано явно, оно полагается равным 10.
Чем меньше значение nice у процесса, тем более высокий приоритет он имеет.
.Pp
Суперпользователь может также указать отрицательное приращение,
чтобы запустить программу с более высоким приоритетом.
.Pp
Некоторые командные оболочки имеют встроенную команду
.Nm
с похожей либо идентичной функциональностью.
Обратитесь к странице справочника
.Xr builtin 1 .
.Sh ОКРУЖЕНИЕ
В случае, когда имя программы, заданное аргументом
.Ar программа ,
не содержит символов
.Ql / ,
для определения её местоположения будет использована переменная окружения
.Ev PATH .
.Sh СТАТУС ЗАВЕРШЕНИЯ
Если
.Ar программа
запускается, статус завершения
.Nm
будет иметь статус завершения этой программы.
.Pp
Статус завершения 126 означает, что
.Ar программа
была найдена, но не может быть выполнена.
Статус завершения 127 означает, что
.Ar программа
не может быть найдена.
.Sh ПРИМЕРЫ
Выполнить утилиту
.Sq date
с приоритетом 5, полагая, что приоритет
командной оболочки равен 0:
shell is 0:
.Pp
.Dl "nice -n 5 date"
.Pp
Выполнить утилиту
.Sq date
с приоритетом -19, полагая, что приоритет
командной оболочки равен 0 и вы являетесь суперпользователем:
.Pp
.Dl "nice -n 16 nice -n -35 date"
.Sh СОВМЕСТИМОСТЬ
Традиционная опция
.Fl Ns Ar приращение
устарела, но всё ещё поддерживается.
.Sh СМОТРИ ТАКЖЕ
.Xr builtin 1 ,
.Xr csh 1 ,
.Xr idprio 1 ,
.Xr rtprio 1 ,
.Xr getpriority 2 ,
.Xr setpriority 2 ,
.Xr renice 8
.Sh СТАНДАРТЫ
Утилита
.Nm
соответствует стандарту
.St -p1003.1-2001 .
.Sh ИСТОРИЯ
Утилита
.Nm
появилась в
.At v4 .
