.\"-
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)rmdir.1	8.1 (Berkeley) 5/31/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/bin/rmdir/rmdir.1,v 1.15 2006/12/27 12:14:56 ru Exp %
.\" $FreeBSDru: frdp/doc/ru_RU.KOI8-R/man/man1/rmdir.1,v 1.1 2006/12/27 12:20:05 ru Exp $
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd 21 марта 2004
.Dt RMDIR 1
.Os
.Sh НАЗВАНИЕ
.Nm rmdir
.Nd удалить каталоги
.Sh СИНТАКСИС
.Nm
.Op Fl pv
.Ar каталог ...
.Sh ОПИСАНИЕ
Утилита
.Nm
удаляет каталоги, заданные аргументами
.Ar каталог ,
в том случае, если они пусты.
.Pp
Аргументы обрабатываются в указанном порядке, поэтому
для удаления и родительского каталога, и его подкаталога вначале
должен быть указан подкаталог,
чтобы родительский каталог был уже
пуст на момент, когда
.Nm
попытается его удалить.
.Pp
Имеются следующие опции:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl p
Каждый
.Ar каталог
рассматривается как путь, все компоненты которого будут удалены,
если они пусты, начиная с последнего компонента.
(О рекурсивном удалении без проверки на то, пуст каталог или нет,
смотрите
.Xr rm 1 . )
.It Fl v
Выводить подробную информацию, показывая каталоги по мере их удаления.
.El
.Sh СТАТУС ЗАВЕРШЕНИЯ
Команда
.Nm
завершается с одним из следующих статусов:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Li 0
Каждый каталог, указанный операндом
.Ar каталог ,
оказался пустым и был успешно удалён.
.It Li >0
Произошла ошибка.
.El
.Sh СМОТРИ ТАКЖЕ
.Xr rm 1
.Sh СТАНДАРТЫ
Предполагается, что утилита
.Nm
совместима со стандартом
.St -p1003.2 .
.Sh ИСТОРИЯ
Команда
.Nm
появилась в
.At v1 .
