.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1985, 1991 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/rup/rup.1,v 1.20 2007/02/28 10:22:19 ru Exp %
.\" $FreeBSDru: frdp/doc/ru_RU.KOI8-R/man/man1/rup.1,v 1.2 2007/02/28 10:27:04 ru Exp $
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd 7 июня 1993
.Dt RUP 1
.Os
.Sh НАЗВАНИЕ
.Nm rup
.Nd вывести состояние удалённой системы
.Sh СИНТАКСИС
.Nm
.Op Ar хост ...
.Sh ОПИСАНИЕ
Утилита
.Nm
выводит краткий отчёт о текущем состоянии системы на указанном
хосте или на всех хостах в локальной сети.
Вывод содержит текущее время суток, время работы системы
с момента начальной загрузки и среднюю нагрузку на систему.
Значения средней нагрузки отражают усреднённое число заданий,
находящихся в очереди на выполнение, за последние 1, 5 и 15 минут.
.Pp
Чтобы эта команда могла работать, на удалённом хосте должен быть
запущен сервис
.Xr rpc.rstatd 8 .
Утилита
.Nm
использует RPC-протокол, определённый в
.In rpcsvc/rstat.x .
.Sh ПРИМЕРЫ
.Bd -literal
example% rup otherhost
otherhost   7:36am  up 6 days, 16:45,  load average: 0.20, 0.23, 0.18
example%
.Ed
.Sh ДИАГНОСТИКА
.Bl -diag
.It rup: RPC: Program not registered
На удалённом хосте не был запущен сервис
.Xr rpc.rstatd 8 .
.It rup: RPC: Timed out
Ошибка при обмене информацией; либо перегружена
сеть, либо на удалённом хосте перестал работать сервис
.Xr rpc.rstatd 8 .
.It rup: RPC: Port mapper failure - RPC: Timed out
Удалённый хост не в состоянии обслуживать RPC-сервисы,
так как на нём не запущен portmapper (см.\&
.Xr rpcbind 8 ) .
Хост может быть просто выключен.
.El
.Sh СМОТРИ ТАКЖЕ
.Xr rpcbind 8 ,
.Xr rpc.rstatd 8
.Sh ИСТОРИЯ
Команда
.Nm
появилась в
.Tn Sun-OS .
.Sh ПРОБЛЕМЫ
Не реализованы опции сортировки.
