.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1990, 1993, 1994
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)ruptime.1	8.2 (Berkeley) 4/5/94
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/ruptime/ruptime.1,v 1.17 2005/02/13 22:25:24 ru Exp %
.\" $FreeBSDru: frdp/doc/ru_RU.KOI8-R/man/man1/ruptime.1,v 1.1 2006/12/26 17:16:27 ru Exp $
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd 1 марта 2003
.Dt RUPTIME 1
.Os
.Sh НАЗВАНИЕ
.Nm ruptime
.Nd вывести состояния систем на локальных машинах
.Sh СИНТАКСИС
.Nm
.Op Fl alrtu
.Op Ar хост ...
.Sh ОПИСАНИЕ
Утилита
.Nm
выводит строку статуса, схожую с выводом утилиты
.Xr uptime 1 ,
для каждой машины в локальной сети.
Информация формируется на основании пакетов, транслируемых
каждым хостом в сети раз в три минуты.
.Pp
Если операнды не указаны,
.Nm
выводит статус всех хостов в локальной сети, иначе выводится
статус только тех хостов, что были указаны в командной строке.
Если хосты заданы в командной строке, порядок сортировки будет
равен порядку их следования в командной строке.
.Pp
Машины, отчёт о статусе которых не был получен на протяжении последних
11 минут, помечаются как выключенные (down).
Машины, отчёт о статусе которых не был получен на протяжении 4 дней,
не показываются в списке вовсе.
.Pp
Имеются следующие опции:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl a
Выводить информацию о всех пользователях.
По умолчанию, если пользователь не осуществлял ввод информации в систему
в течение часа и более, то информация о нём не выводится.
.It Fl l
Сортировать вывод по средней нагрузке.
.It Fl r
Сортировать в обратном порядке.
.It Fl t
Сортировать по времени работы с момента начальной загрузки.
.It Fl u
Сортировать по числу пользователей.
.El
.Pp
По умолчанию вывод сортируется по имени хоста.
.Sh ФАЙЛЫ
.Bl -tag -width /var/rwho/whod.* -compact
.It Pa /var/rwho/whod.*
файлы с данными
.El
.Sh СМОТРИ ТАКЖЕ
.Xr rwho 1 ,
.Xr uptime 1 ,
.Xr rwhod 8
.Sh ИСТОРИЯ
Утилита
.Nm
появилась в
.Bx 4.2 .
