.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1990 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     from: @(#)rusers.1	6.7 (Berkeley) 4/23/91
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/rusers/rusers.1,v 1.18 2004/07/04 20:55:50 ru Exp %
.\" $FreeBSDru: frdp/doc/ru_RU.KOI8-R/man/man1/rusers.1,v 1.1 2006/12/25 20:05:05 ru Exp $
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd 23 апреля 1991
.Dt RUSERS 1
.Os
.Sh НАЗВАНИЕ
.Nm rusers
.Nd показать кто подключен к машинам локальной сети
.Sh СИНТАКСИС
.Nm
.Op Fl al
.Op Ar хост ...
.Sh ОПИСАНИЕ
Команда
.Nm
делает то же, что и
.Xr who 1 ,
но для списка хостов, заданных аргументами,
или для всех машин в локальной сети.
Для каждого откликнувшегося на запрос
.Nm
хоста выводится строка с именем хоста и списком подключенных к нему
в настоящий момент пользователей.
Команда
.Nm
будет ждать одну минуту после запуска для приёма
ответов от хостов с большими задержками.
.Pp
Имеются следующие опции:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl a
Вывести список всех ответивших машин, даже если на них нет ни одного
вошедшего пользователя.
.It Fl l
Вывести подробный список.
Он включает в себя имя пользователя, имя хоста, терминал пользователя,
дату и время входа пользователя, время простоя (время, прошедшее с момента,
когда пользователь в последний раз набирал что-либо на терминале) и,
если уместно, адрес удалённого хоста, с которого пользователь подключился.
.El
.Sh ДИАГНОСТИКА
.Bl -diag
.It rusers: RPC: Program not registered
На удалённом хосте не запущен сервис
.Xr rpc.rusersd 8 .
.It rusers: RPC: Timed out
Ошибка при обмене информацией; либо перегружена
сеть, либо на удалённом хосте перестал работать сервис
.Xr rpc.rusersd 8 .
.It rusers: "RPC: Port mapper failure - RPC: Timed out"
Удалённый хост не в состоянии обслуживать RPC-сервисы,
так как на нём не запущен portmapper (см.\&
.Xr rpcbind 8 ) .
Хост может быть просто выключен.
.El
.Sh СМОТРИ ТАКЖЕ
.Xr rwho 1 ,
.Xr users 1 ,
.Xr who 1 ,
.Xr rpcbind 8 ,
.Xr rpc.rusersd 8
.Sh ИСТОРИЯ
Команда
.Nm
появилась в
.Em Sun-OS .
.Sh ПРОБЛЕМЫ
Не реализованы опции сортировки.
