.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)shar.1	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/6/93
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/shar/shar.1,v 1.11 2005/01/18 13:43:52 ru Exp %
.\" $FreeBSDru: frdp/doc/ru_RU.KOI8-R/man/man1/shar.1,v 1.4 2006/12/20 09:38:36 ru Exp $
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd 6 июня 1993
.Dt SHAR 1
.Os
.Sh НАЗВАНИЕ
.Nm shar
.Nd создаёт архив файлов в виде сценария командной оболочки
.Sh СИНТАКСИС
.Nm
.Ar
.Sh ОПИСАНИЕ
Команда
.Nm
выдаёт на стандартный вывод сценарий командной оболочки
.Xr sh 1 ,
который может воссоздать заново иерархию файлов, указанных
параметрами командной строки.
Каталоги будут созданы заново и должны указываться
перед файлами, в них содержащимися (утилита
.Xr find 1
делает это корректно).
.Pp
Обычно команда
.Nm
используется для распространения файлов посредством
.Xr ftp 1
или
.Xr mail 1 .
.Sh ПРИМЕРЫ
Чтобы создать архив программы
.Xr ls 1
и отправить его по почте Роме:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
cd ls
shar `find . -print` \&| mail -s "ls source" roma
.Ed
.Pp
Чтобы воссоздать каталог программы:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
mkdir ls
cd ls
\&...
<далее следует удалить строки заголовка
и проверить полученный по почте архив>
\&...
sh archive
.Ed
.Sh СМОТРИ ТАКЖЕ
.Xr compress 1 ,
.Xr mail 1 ,
.Xr tar 1 ,
.Xr uuencode 1
.Sh ИСТОРИЯ
Команда
.Nm
появилась в
.Bx 4.4 .
.Sh ПРОБЛЕМЫ
Команда
.Nm
не поддерживает должным образом файлы специальных типов и файлы,
содержащие специальные (magic) символы.
Также
.Nm
не может обрабатывать файлы, у которых последний символ
не является символом новой строки ('\\n').
.Pp
Очень легко добавить троянский код в файлы, созданные с помощью
.Nm .
Настоятельно рекомендуется проверять все файлы архивов
.Nm
перед тем, как выполнить их при помощи
.Xr sh 1 .
Архивы, созданные с помощью данной реализации
.Nm ,
могут быть легко проверены с помощью команды:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
egrep -v '^[X#]' shar.file
.Ed
