.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1993, 1994
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This manual is derived from one contributed to Berkeley by
.\" Michael Rendell of Memorial University of Newfoundland.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)tsort.1	8.3 (Berkeley) 4/1/94
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/tsort/tsort.1,v 1.13 2006/12/27 14:56:18 ru Exp %
.\" $FreeBSDru: frdp/doc/ru_RU.KOI8-R/man/man1/tsort.1,v 1.1 2006/12/27 15:05:30 ru Exp $
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd 27 декабря 2006
.Dt TSORT 1
.Os
.Sh НАЗВАНИЕ
.Nm tsort
.Nd топологическая сортировка ориентированного графа
.Sh СИНТАКСИС
.Nm
.Op Fl dlq
.Op Ar файл
.Sh ОПИСАНИЕ
Утилита
.Nm
берёт список пар имён вершин графа, представляющих ориентированные дуги,
и печатает в стандартный вывод вершины графа в топологическом порядке.
Чтение происходит из файла, заданного аргументом
.Ar файл ,
или из стандартного ввода,
если файл не задан.
.Pp
На входе должно быть чётное число имён вершин.
Имена, указанные в одной строке, разделяются пробельными символами.
.Pp
Наличие вершины в графе может быть представлено дугой от вершины к
самой себе.
Изолированные вершины могут быть заданы таким способом.
.Pp
Если граф имеет цикл (и следовательно не может быть отсортирован),
одна из дуг, составляющих цикл, игнорируется и сортировка продолжается.
Наличии циклов протоколируется в стандартном файле ошибок.
.Pp
Имеются следующие опции:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl d
Включить режим отладки.
.It Fl l
Найти и показать самый длинный цикл.
Может потребоваться значительное время.
.It Fl q
Не выводить информационные сообщения о циклах.
Используется в основном
при сборке библиотек, где оптимальное упорядочение некритично,
а циклы встречаются довольно часто.
.El
.Sh СМОТРИ ТАКЖЕ
.Xr ar 1
.Sh ИСТОРИЯ
Утилита
.Nm
появилась в
.At v7 .
Эта команда
.Nm
и её справочная страница основаны на исходных текстах, которые
.An Michael Rendell
из Memorial University of Newfoundland
передал университету в Berkeley.
.Sh ПРОБЛЕМЫ
Утилита
.Nm
не распознаёт мультибайтовые символы.
