.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)what.1	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/6/93
.\"
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/what/what.1,v 1.20 2006/12/14 00:02:44 ru Exp %
.\" $FreeBSDru: frdp/doc/ru_RU.KOI8-R/man/man1/what.1,v 1.2 2007/11/20 13:50:08 ru Exp $
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd 14 декабря 2006
.Dt WHAT 1
.Os
.Sh НАЗВАНИЕ
.Nm what
.Nd "показать какие версии объектных модулей использовались для создания файла"
.Sh СИНТАКСИС
.Nm
.Op Fl qs
.Op Ar
.Sh ОПИСАНИЕ
Утилита
.Nm
выполняет поиск последовательностей вида
.Dq Li @(#) ,
вставляемых системой управления исходными текстами
.Tn SCCS ,
в каждом из указанных файлов.
Она печатает часть строки начиная с этой метки и до первого из символов NUL,
новой строки, двойной кавычки,
.Ql \&>
или обратной косой черты.
.Pp
Имеются следующие опции:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl q
Вывести найденные строки без форматирования.
.It Fl s
Остановить поиск после первого совпадения.
.El
.Sh СТАТУС ЗАВЕРШЕНИЯ
Код завершения равен 0, если какие-либо подстроки были найдены, иначе 1.
.Sh СМОТРИ ТАКЖЕ
.Xr ident 1 ,
.Xr strings 1
.Sh СТАНДАРТЫ
Утилита
.Nm
соответствует стандарту
.St -p1003.1-2001 .
Опция
.Fl q
является нестандартным расширением
.Fx
и может быть недоступна на других ОС.
.Sh ИСТОРИЯ
Команда
.Nm
появилась в
.Bx 4.0 .
.Sh ПРОБЛЕМЫ
Эта утилита была написана заново по мотивам одноимённой команды
.Tn SCCS ,
поэтому её поведение может отличаться.
