.\" Copyright (c) 1993 Winning Strategies, Inc.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"      This product includes software developed by Winning Strategies, Inc.
.\" 4. The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote products
.\"    derived from this software without specific prior written permission
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/ypmatch/ypmatch.1,v 1.13 2002/04/20 12:18:26 charnier Exp %
.\" $FreeBSDru: frdp/doc/ru_RU.KOI8-R/man/man1/ypmatch.1,v 1.1 2006/12/27 21:40:06 ru Exp $
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd 3 декабря 1993
.Dt YPMATCH 1
.Os
.Sh НАЗВАНИЕ
.Nm ypmatch
.Nd "вывести значения одного или нескольких ключей базы данных YP"
.Sh СИНТАКСИС
.Nm
.Op Fl kt
.Op Fl d Ar имя_домена
.Ar ключ ...
.Ar имя_базы
.Nm
.Fl x
.Sh ОПИСАНИЕ
Утилита
.Nm
выводит значения одного или нескольких ключей базы данных
.Tn YP ,
заданной аргументом
.Ar имя_базы .
Аргумент
.Ar имя_базы
может быть либо именем базы данных, либо псевдонимом.
.Pp
Имеются следующие опции:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl d Ar имя_домена
Указать домен, отличный от домена по умолчанию.
.It Fl k
Показывать ключи базы данных.
Эта опция полезна при работе с базами данных с пустыми значениями,
или когда ключ не является частью значения.
.It Fl t
Отключить преобразование псевдонимов баз данных
в соответствующие имена.
.It Fl x
Вывести таблицу псевдонимов.
.El
.Sh СМОТРИ ТАКЖЕ
.Xr domainname 1 ,
.Xr ypcat 1 ,
.Xr yp 8 ,
.Xr ypbind 8 ,
.Xr ypset 8
.Sh АВТОРЫ
.An Theo De Raadt Aq deraadt@theos.com .
